Transient Encounters: We recognise the temporary nature of the biennale format, as well as the mutable boundaries of the notions it proposes to address. Life is not about the solid stabilities suggested by historical constructs. Living requires facing continuous changes and the openness to experience the significance of chance, passing encounters.

Forms of Collectivity and their Critique: Neither the individual nor the collective is a self-enclosed given. Both are constructs, subject to mutation. How do we signalise those sparking points in cultural practice, where an interplay between artistic choice and civic volition could bring about a burst of critical agency? While some artists camouflage themselves as fictional collectives or use heteronyms, others distance themselves from ascribed or inherited formations; yet others subscribe or affiliate themselves to collective projects, artistic and political.

Individual Spirit in Identifying Alternative Logics and Horizons of Connectivity: The debordering and loosening of economic, sovereign, social, cultural and historic frameworks by digitization, global trade and political movements are breaking the cages of our ideological and national logics. It’s time to consider the conditions in which transformative forces inspired and motivated by individual spirit are incubated on a societal, philosophical and artistic level.

Belonging and Anonymity: The May 18 Gwangju Democratisation Movement in 1980 resulted in a massacre of the protestors by the military regime and since 1995, the Gwangju Biennale has been Asia’s oldest and most prestigious biennale of contemporary art. Modern Gwangju has mostly been constructed through definitions that tend to establish specific protagonists and largely operates within the realm of grand narratives. We will look beyond such grand political and social narratives to reveal overlooked histories and traces of the lives of its inhabitants.

Re-visiting History: “To write of depicting or representing history is to imply that history is some kind of object with identifiable boundaries that distinguish it from other objects..." (Jean Fisher) How is history used? Re-used? What is our relationship to history? How do we remember things? Why do we remember them? Is using history as an ‘object’ a way in which we define ourselves in the world today, with all the dramatic changes (earthquakes, tsunamis and civil uprisings)? Why do we go back in history to remember when and why these happened before?

Impact of Mobility on Space and Time: The idea of a modern-day odyssey arises from a reflection on the global phenomenon of mobility in both its spatial and temporal dimensions. We would like to invite artists to investigate this situation by reflecting on how they can go beyond geo-political borders and explore terra incognita, going back and forth between the past and the future, towards a new horizon for what Thomas Friedman calls our " ‘flat’ world."re: http://hollyrowanhesson.co.uk/artist-statement/

Through intuitive and process-led image making, I create dialogues with material, sites and residual memories. This interrogation regularly starts from abstract photographs I make in situ capturing my interest in specific man-made structures, buildings and physical spaces.

Exploring uncertainty and transience, my work is concerned with the actual fragility and transitory nature of what seems solid, weighty and permanent, both physically and also in the way things are perceived.

My resulting sculptural and installation work is multi-layered with uncertain depth of focus.Adapted from https://www.pinterest.com/vkartapart/:

Creative Chaos represents the Collection of the Figurative-Abstract paintings. The characteristics of these Artworks consist in the instinctive approach enriched with a vivid chromaticism and Artist philosophy of life. Using the pure elements of form, line, color, composition, texture, pattern and process the Artist expresses her primordial sense of freedom suggesting the viewer intuition where each painting will lead to.

Basically realized with instinctive and creative approach, the Artist intends to vent all her concerns and insecurities giving birth to an original Painting where the contrast between the colors and the symbolism of letters and numbers shapes an astonished woman looking for herself into an unknown dimension. Its deep intensity sounds like the solo of a vibrant electric guitar: the dynamic alternation of the colors let ideally perceive the reproduction of notes and rythm of a Rock soundtrack.

Challenging eyes and the serious face expression let perceive the fighter is ready to face the adversity. The Artist rather meant to represent a pragmatic standing-by position suspended between two moods: a concious and cold wait opposed to the passionate momentum towards the action.

Using a provocative character, the Artist represents an "alternative femininity" with a trasgressive approach; going through a different sexual identity the Artist intends to represent femininity as a human attitude rather than a straight sexual orientation.

The Artist represents a weeping young lady ideally hugging the picture of whom she meant to be: a modern and strong woman challenging the world Reproducing her alter ego, the Artist describes the current impossibility to follow her dreams and ambitions because of sudden events occurred in her life.

The Artist represents a young, naked and exhausted woman fighting with her struggles personified by a frightfully leering, undefined mask overlooking her. With her left hand, she hides a bloody sword and presents a wound on the same side. The mask threatens the young lady, watching her steadily and relentlessly. The lady is desperate, temporarily unable to overcome her sense of bewilderment and duress; She tried to kill her fears, but couldn't!

Using a provocative character, the Artist represents a naive idea of femininity as a captivating side of the women's universe.

The Artist represents a robot woman sitting and absorbed in her thoughts; she's observed by her own eyes appearing through the sinuous movement of her tail. The Lady sits confused and tired, like taking a rest from a fast and aggressive society which doesn't give time to focus on herself.

The Artist represents a young woman crouching on the ground surrounded by a protective aura. The attitude of the body represented in a defensive and gentle position seems to ask for help and protection; the aura appears to be the Divine aid the young lady is looking for. The lady is lying disoriented in a fetal position: she doesn't know where to go, what to do, whom to rely on... but like a new birth will regenerate new energy to face life!

The Artist represents an African woman hugging a baby. In spite of the physical conjunction represented by a hug, both the characters apparently play an independent role in this Opera: the woman looks tired, submissive, unhappy and somehow resigned to her fate; the baby instead seems to peacefully rely on her ancestry privileges.

The symbolic meaning of the Work refers to the social theme of the Poverty considered as a "calamity" affecting the human dignity to to a point that deeply impacts elementary human rights.re: http://www.e-flux.com/announcements/jimmie-durham-and-his-metonymic-banquet/

Jimmie Durham makes the first move in Dominó Caníbal, taking over the exhibition venue —the former Verónicas church in Murcia, Spain— and questioning the division between inside and outside in the Western sacred space: both a religious temple and an exhibition hall.

Durham has taken over the nave of the former church and turned it into a repository for a heteroclite collection of objects, residues and things: a communal grave, a subversive classification or a residual map of the world. The crux of the operation lies in introducing "the profane" in its deepest etymological meaning into the religious and aesthetic temple: everything that remains "before the temple", in other words what is "before" the feast or is excluded in order to invest the sanctum with its spatial purity. Pieces of cement, wire, refrigerators, barrels, bits of glass and residues of "the sacred", speak of the space of the exhibition hall in an attempt to connect the interior of the church with all that it threw out in order to be sacralised, which is to say, transforming it into a kind of "temple of confusion".

The result is an invasion that disturbs the Western notion of transcendental spatiality defined by a negation of chaos, of the living and the contamination of the world. If this bricolage contains a map of the world excluded by religious artifice, it is because it resists all representation and metaphor, in other words, any device that understands "meaning" as a rejection of immanence. One on hand, the project is the result of a process of research into the concrete: the inventory Durham gathered throughout the period of one month in the city of Murcia and its surrounding area, excavating in its industrial archaeology and the layers of culture and violence that compose it, and establishing an ongoing conversation with its inhabitants. The driving idea is in fact to bring to the surface "everything" excluded from the temple, not only in the accumulated mass of deposits, but also because each and every thing introduced into the church brings with it all that is associated with it, that substitutes for it and that involves it through proximity and contact. Technically speaking, we could say that Jimmie Durham’s installation is a huge metonymic banquet.

In the greater view of Dominó Caníbal, a year-long project which will see another six artists intervening, destroying, resignifying and devouring the banquet that he has created here, Durham’s installation and opening move in the game is like 28 double sixes or having desecrated the temple with the corpse of everything. Jimmie Durham’s challenge to Cristina Lucas, The Bruce High Quality Foundation, Kendell Geers, Tania Bruguera, Rivane Neueschwander and Francis Alÿs throughout 2010 at Sala Verónicas in Murcia might well be summed up by a monstrous mandate: "Bring that stuff in Here!" Which is to say, keep on contaminating this false paradise.source: http://www.e-flux.com/announcements/kim-beoms-animalia/

Through an expansive practice that spans drawing, sculpture, video, and artist books, Kim contemplates a world in which perception is radically questioned. His visual language is characterized by deadpan humor and absurdist propositions that playfully and subversively invert expectations. By suggesting that what you see may not be what you see, Kim reveals the tension between internal psychology and external reality, and relates observation and knowledge as states of mind.

Organized around the theme and title Animalia, Kim's exhibition explores the vast sphere of nature and the animal kingdom, often inverting its laws and collapsing the boundaries of living beings and inanimate objects. Refusing to accept the clear distinctions that separate realms of existence, Kim deftly employs animism, illusion and a deep sense of empathy in his works to reflect upon and transgress the social institutions that delineate natural order.re: http://www.e-flux.com/program/we-the-outsiders/

Can it be said that art has a consciousness of its own? And if such a consciousness were independent of us, where would it place us in relation to itself?

We, The Outsiders revolves around a single work—a gigantic egg—by Argentinian artist Federico Manuel Peralta Ramos that provides a title and script for an exhibition that investigates where consciousness begins and ends in relation to art. Titled Nosotros afuera [We, the Outsiders] (1965), the egg is a microcosm of the space of creation that we cannot immediately access, and it silently remaps and inverts our understanding of what is inside and what is outside of consciousness and creation. This gigantic egg marks more of a beginning than an end, but also a moment when the artist declared himself tired of language. He and he alone can decide on the meaning of words. Yet if he remains the only one who knows the meaning, the whole process may end up a radically solipsistic effort.

Peralta Ramos’s egg shares the room with German filmmaker Lutz Mommatz’s film, Markeneier (1967); Argentinean artist Eduardo Navarro’s travelogue to the core of a volcano, and works by Polish painter Agnieszka Brzezanska. Very little documentation remains of the piece Peralta Ramos created as his contribution to the final Instituto Torcuato di Tella show in 1965. The few black-and-white photographs that exist show the large egg alone with its maker on a thin plinth on the gallery floor. There are some dark areas in the plaster; the piece was not entirely dry at the time of the show. Surviving friends who saw the piece recall that the work was made in such a hurry that it broke immediately after the jury declared it the winner of that year’s Di Tella Art Prize. A relative of Peralta Ramos similarly remembers that the artist miscalculated the tension between the metal structure and the plaster skin, and the piece imploded immediately after the award ceremony. Yet there is also a picture that shows Peralta Ramos destroying the piece himself. Either way, the work was too large to be moved as it was made inside the gallery space, and was always fated for destruction.

The egg stood in front of us—all of us, people from the past as well as the future—and renamed and reinvented the world anew. Peralta Ramos changed the rules and altered the universe that day in Buenos Aires, which might explain why he abandoned painting and sculpture shortly after, instead staging many social gatherings and writing maxims on café napkins over long afternoons in Buenos Aires. He did not stop making art; rather, he started making it from the other side.Vanitas still life painters of the 16th and 17th century had a remarkable ability to capture the impermanence of life on canvas. They employed a host of iconic objects ranging from pensive skulls and snuffed candles to rotting food and fading flowers in order to compose vivid pictorial messages of remarkable complexity, eloquence, and beauty that speak of the brevity of life and profound futility of earthly existence.

In my latest collection of still life imagery, I follow in the footsteps of the great masters of the Baroque period and harness the ambiguous meaning of objects to compose satirical illustrations that not only evoke the fleeting qualities of time and the transience of life in general, but place particular emphasis on the absurdities of our fast-paced modern life. Art is Spiritual

Conceptual

Germany

multimedia

Painting

USA

bourgeois

An artist’s words are always to be taken cautiously. The finished work is often a stranger to, and sometimes very much at odds with what the artist felt, or wished to express when he began. At best the artist does what he can rather than what he wants to do. After the battle is over and the damage faced up to, the result may be surprisingly dull--but sometimes it is surprisingly interesting. The mountain brought forth a mouse, but the bee will create a miracle of beauty and order. Asked to enlighten us on their creative process, both would be embarrassed, and probably uninterested. The artist who discusses the so-called meaning of his work is usually describing a literary side-issue. The core of his original impulse is to be found, if at all, in the work itself. Just the same, the artist must say what he feels:

My work grows from the duel between the isolated individual and the shared awareness of the group. At first I made single figures without any freedom at all: blind houses without any openings, any relation to the outside world. Later, tiny windows started to appear. And then I began to develop an interest in the relationship between two figures. The figures of this phase are turned in on themselves, but they try to be together even though they may not succeed in reaching each other.

Gradually the relations between the figures I made became freer and more subtle, and now I see my works as groups of objects relating to each other. Although ultimately each can and does stand alone, the figures can be grouped in various ways and fashions, and each time the tension of their relations makes for a different formal arrangement. For this reason the figures are placed in the ground the way people would place themselves in the street to talk to each other. And this is why they grow from a single point--a minimum base of immobility which suggests an always possible change. In my most recent work these relations become clearer and more intimate. Now the single work has its own complex of parts, each of which is similar, yet different from the others. But there is still the feeling with which I began-the drama of one among many. The look of my figures is abstract, and to the spectator they may not appear to be figures at all. They are the expression, in abstract terms, of emotions and states of awareness. Eighteenth-century painters made "conversation pieces"; my sculptures might be called "confrontation pieces." Louise Bourgeois, 1954 SOURCE: Reading Abstract Expressionism: Context and Critique, Ellen G. Landau, ed., New Haven and London: Yale University Press, 2005, 180f. Originally published in Design Quarterly, no. 30 (1954), 18. The Anti-artist-statement Statement 2010--Uncategorized USA Hyperallergic Iris Jaffe /I hate artist statements. Really, I do./ /As an artist, they are almost always awkward and painful to write, and as a viewer they are similarly painful and uninformative to read./ /I also don’t know who decided that artists should be responsible for writing their own "artist statement." Maybe it was an understaffed gallery in the 1980s, or a control freak think-inside-my-box-or-get-out MFA program director, but regardless of how this standardized practice came to be, the artist’s statement as professional prerequisite (at least for artists who have yet to be validated by the established art world) has long overstayed its welcome. And I don’t think a new one should be required in its place.

by Iris Jaffe from Hyperallergic

performance

Sculpture

sound

USA

deafness, sign language 1

Considering the fact that I was born deaf, my learning process is shaped by American Sign Language interpreters, subtitles on television, written conversations on paper, emails, and text messages. These communication modes have often conveyed, filtered, and limited information, which naturally leads to a loss of content and a delay in communication. Thus, my understanding of reality is filtered, and potentially distorted. This is part of the core of my practice as an artist and I am now taking ownership of sounds after years of speech therapy. Instead of seeking for one’s approval to make "correct" sounds, I perform, vocalize, and/or visually translate them based on my perception.

As a visual and performance artist, it is always my intention to approach sound by constantly pushing it to a different level of physicality, and despite my complex relationship with Deaf culture, I
attempt to translate sound while unlearning society’s views and etiquettes around it. Using my conceptual judgment and compromised understanding, I challenge and question its visual absence and sometime tactile presence. Fortunately, with today’s advanced technology such as computer programs and high bass speakers, I have been given alternative access to sound. It does not necessarily mean that it’s a mere substitute or replacement of sound.

short documentary video

under: Photography

USA

White Tiger (Kenny)
Selective Inbreeding, Turpentine Creek Wildlife Refuge and Foundation Eureka Springs, Arkansas

In the United States, all living white tigers are the result of selective inbreeding to artificially create the genetic conditions that lead to white fur, ice-blue eyes and a pink nose. Kenny was born to a breeder in Bentonville, Arkansas on February 3, 1999. As a result of inbreeding, Kenny is mentally retarded and has significant physical limitations. Due to his deep-set nose, he has difficulty breathing and closing his jaw, his teeth are severely malformed and he limps from abnormal bone structure in his forearms. The three other tigers in Kenny’s litter are not considered to be quality white tigers as they are yellow-coated, cross-eyed, and knock-kneed.

Chromogenic print, 37-1/4 x 44-1/2 inches framed (94.6 x 113 cm), Edition of 7

[Taryn Simon provides expansive descriptions as part of many of her works.--eds.]

figurative

Ireland

Painting

Uncategorized

Samuel Becket.B. Yeats

Some seventeen years ago I was still painting the torso as an image of the human presence, when I stumbled into what I call a blind year--a year in which I had no luck, in which no image emerged. At the end of that year I destroyed forty-three bad paintings. As you can imagine, I was by then in a bad way myself, when my wife Anne Madden--herself a painter--brought me to Paris as to a place of discovery. And there indeed I did discover at the Musée de l’Homme, the Polynesian image of the human head, which like the Celtic image which I discovered the following year, represented for me--as perhaps for these two widely different cultures--the mysterious box which contains the spirit: the outer reality of the invisible interior world of consciousness.

In Dublin, now some sixty years ago, the great physicist, Erwin Schroedinger, astonished me with the thought:

/Consciousness is a singular of which the plural is unknown and what appears to be the plurality is merely a series of different aspects of this one thing./

Much later in Provence, faced with the Celto-Ligurian head cult of Entremont and Roquepertuse, I asked myself if it were not perhaps this
"singular" which so preoccupied our barbarian ancestors in their oracular use of the severed head.

Such a concept of an autonomous, disseminated consciousness surpassing individual personality would, I imagine, tend to produce an ambiguity involving a dislocation of our individual conception of time (within which coming and going, beginning and end, are normally regarded) and confronting this "normal" view with an alternative, contrary sense of simultaneity or timelessness; switching the linear conception of time to which we are accustomed to a circular concept returning upon itself, as in Finnegans Wake. Likewise, if indeed the aesthetic image in a painting by Rembrandt is illuminated by Joyce’s radiance or whatness, and if that revelation of whatness is achieved by an ambivalence in the role of the paint (involving a transmogrification of the paint itself into the image and vice versa), then these circumstances also may be said to produce that timeless or paratemporal quality, which we instinctively recognize in such a painting.

It would therefore seem that the realization of the aesthetic image or whatness of things, outside and to one side of the linear progress of time, is an essential characteristic of the art of painting and, I imagine, of art generally.

In the modern world, however, we appear to resist such significant integrating imagery, which was more evident perhaps in past cultures, wherein people seem to have regarded the passage of time rather more ambivalently, as being at once related to their personal predicament and to a larger cosmology.

It would appear that this ambivalent attitude to time was especially linked to the prehistoric Celtic or Gallic world, and there is further evidence that it persists to some extent in the Celtic mind today. It is consistent, I think, with Yeat’s tragic view of life--an essentially cosmologic and aristocratic attitude in opposition to the narrow expediency of the "greasy till":

/We Irish, born into the ancient sect
//But thrown upon this filthy modern tide
//And by its formless spawning fury wrecked
//Climb to our proper dark, that we may trace
//The lineaments of a plummet-measured face./

In my own small world of painting I myself have learned from the canvas that emergence and disappearance--twin phenomena of time--are ambivalent, that one implies the other and that the state or matrix within which they co-exist dissolves the normal sense of time, producing a characteristic stillness, characteristic of the art of painting.

After a number of years I recall Beckett’s Watt, regarding from a gate the distant figure of a man or a woman (or could it be a priest or a nun?) which appeared to be advancing by slow degrees from the horizon, only surprisingly "without any interruption of its motions" to disappear over it instead. Here going is confounded--if not identified--with coming, backwards with forwards. The film returns the diver to the divingboard. The procession of present moments is reversed, stilled.

Elsewhere in Finnegans Wake does not the fallen Finegan become "Finn Macool lying beside the Liffey, his head at Howth, his feet at Phoenix Park, his wife beside him, watching the microcosmic ‘fluid succession of presents’ go by like a river of life"?

And is not Yeats’s circular lunar system of re-incarnation--the winding stair of Thoor Ballylee, climbed and descended repeatedly--itself a cosmic arrangement of this fluid succession of presents, of time-consciousness in this profoundly Celtic sense? Is this indeed the underlying ambivalence which we in Ireland tend to stress; the continual presence of the historic past, the indivisibility of birth and funeral, spanning the apparent chasm between past and present, between consciousness and fact?

image: /Image of Samuel Beckett, Stirrings Still/, 1994, oil on canvas,
116 x 89 cm

Canada

Conceptual

Installation

Sculpture

The erosion of cultures--and of "culture" as a whole--is the theme that runs through the last 25 years of my artistic practice. Cultures arise, become obsolete, and are replaced by new ones. With the vanishing of cultures, some people are displaced and destroyed. We are currently told that the paper book is bound to die. The library, as a place, is finished. One might say: so what? Do we really believe that "new technologies" will change anything concerning our existential dilemma, our human condition? And even if we could change the content of all the books on earth, would this change anything in relation to the domination of analytical knowledge over intuitive knowledge? What is it in ourselves that insists on grabbing, on casting the flow of experience into concepts?

When I was younger, I was very upset with the ideologies of progress. I wanted to destroy them by showing that we are still primitives. I had the profound intuition that as a species, we had not evolved that much. Now I see that our belief in progress stems from our fascination with the content of consciousness. Despite appearances, our current obsession for changing the forms in which we access culture is but a manifestation of this fascination.

My work, in 3D as well as in painting, originates from the very idea that ultimate knowledge could very well be an erosion instead of an accumulation. The title of one of my pieces is " All Ideas Look Alike". Contemporary art seems to have forgotten that there is an exterior to the intellect. I want to examine thinking, not only "What" we think, but "That" we think.

So I carve landscapes out of books and I paint Romantic landscapes. Mountains of disused knowledge return to what they really are: mountains. They erode a bit more and they become hills. Then they flatten and become fields where apparently nothing is happening. Piles of obsolete encyclopedias return to that which does not need to say anything, that which simply IS. Fogs and clouds erase everything we know, everything we think we are.

After 30 years of practice, the only thing I still wish my art to do is this: To project us into this thick Cloud of Unknowing.

abstract

Canada

Painting

USA

inspiration

Agnes Martin was born in Macklin, a town in Saskatchewan, Canada, in 1912. She grew up in Vancouver, then moved to Bellingham, Washington, in 1932. Martin gained a bachelor of science degree in 1942 and a master of arts degree in 1952 from Teachers College at Columbia University, while living intermittently in New Mexico. In 1957 she relocated to Coenties Slip in Lower Manhattan. She had her first one-person exhibition in 1958 at the Betty Parsons Gallery, New York. Surveys of her work have been presented at venues including the Institute of Contemporary Art at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia (1973), the Stedelijk Museum, Amsterdam (1991), and the Whitney Museum of American Art, New York (1992). She was awarded a Golden Lion at the Venice Biennial in 1997 and a National Endowment for the Arts National Medal of Arts in 1998, among other honors. From the late sixties until her death on December 16, 2004, Martin lived and worked in rural New Mexico.

Artist’s page at DIAMy artwork takes a critical view of social, political and cultural issues. In my work, I deconstruct the American dream, fairy tales, nursery rhymes, and lullabies that are part of our childhood and adult culture. Having engaged subjects as diverse as the civil rights movement, southern rock music and modernist architecture, my work reproduces familiar visual signs, arranging them into new conceptually layered pieces.

Often times these themes are combined into installations that feature mundane domestic objects painted blue, juxtaposed with whimsical objects, and often embellished with stenciled text. The color blue establishes a dream-like surreal quality, suggests notions of calmness and safety, and formally unifies the disparate objects in each installation. The texts provide clues to content and interpretation.

While I use a variety of materials and processes in each project my methodology is consistent. Although there may not always be material similarities between the different projects they are linked by recurring formal concerns and through the subject matter. The subject matter of each body of work determines the materials and the forms of the work.

Each project often consists of multiple works, often in a range of different media, grouped around specific themes and meanings. During research and production new areas of interest arise and lead to the next body of work.

I think of my installations as unfinished inventories of fragments: objects, drawings, paintings, photographs, and other inventions. They are improvisational sites in which the constructed and the ready-made are used to question our
making of the world through language and knowledge. My arrangements are schematic, inviting the viewer to move into a space of speculation. I rely on our desires for beauty, poetics and seduction.

The work thus far has used the frame of the museum to propose a secret history of modernity, and in the process, point to stereotypes of difference, which are hidden in plain sight. I have found the histories of surrealism and minimalism to be useful in the rearranging of received ideas. The objects I make are placed in the canon of modernist art, in hopes of making visible what is overlooked in the historicizing of the artist. This project has always been grounded in pleasure and aesthetics.

Knitting is my key to the secret garden, my way down the rabbit hole, my looking glass.

Hand knitting started it. From the beginning the process of transforming string into cloth has struck me as magical. And, over the years, that magical process has had its way with me, leading me from hobby to art. Knitting fills me with a sense of accomplishment and integrity, and has proven a most amenable vehicle for translating inner vision to outer reality.

I knit from the inside out. Though I work quite deliberately, consciously employing both traditional and innovative techniques, my unconscious is the undisputed project manager.

The concrete, repetitive nature of this work frees my imagination and provides many opportunities for happy accident and grace to influence the finished product.

Recently I discovered some childhood drawings: simple, crayoned patchworks that resonate deeply with my fiber work. Inspired and invigorated by a renewed sense of continuity, and awed by the mystery of how creation occurs, I am now knitting richly varied fabrics exploring many patterns, textures and colors. Once knit, the fabrics are pieced to form an always new patchwork from which I make my garments and accessories.

I don't set out to produce art about one subject or another. I'm never without a sketchbook to hand so I am constantly drawing and sometimes the drawings are left in the sketchbook and other times they develop into more in-depth ideas and detailed images.

I didn't set out to be an environmental artist or to create artwork relating to social commentary but as my portfolio developed and people started to review my work, the descriptions started to emerge and I began to notice a pattern I hadn't intended but am now please with.

My work tends to focus on the environment, the evolution of man and his material wealth, the development of bigger and bigger cities, more and more people, cars and industry on the planet and the consequences this has on nature. Some reviews have labeled my work as 'black humour' but I always try to depict a positive message too - the persistence of nature in recapturing what once belonged to the earth.

At school, the only class I really paid any attention in was art. I simply wasn't interested in anything else and I think my obsession with depicting the monotony of the work place and work force started there...

Some of my subject matter is about people's daily routines and a comment on human nature. And since I've always been a fan of mafia films - a new strand of work seems to have emerged depicting a very 'human' and 'school playground' side to mob life.

None of it was intentional - it all developed and evolved over time. People always ask for my artist statement so I needed to do one but I've never liked to explain a certain piece of work - if you've made a picture and that's how you wanted it to be - hopefully it can speak for itself and whatever it says to the viewer - it's the right message because there isn't a wrong and a right message. Each person takes something a little different from the same picture and I'm happy with that.

My influences are first and foremost everything I see, feel and experience, but I've always loved comic books particularly work by Harvey Pekar and Robert Crumb. I love architecture particularly Art Deco. The artists I most admire are John Martin, a mezzotint artist from the 1800's, Winsor McCay a cartoonist and animator who created Little Nemo, Escher and Lyonel Feininger creator of Kinder Kids. I grew up watching films such as Metropolis, Flash Gordon, Star Wars and Brazil.So all of these things we're talking about become traveling descriptions, or like a cognitive dissident thing that ends up in a kind of binary displacement stuck between two poles.

The spaghetti is not just theoretical but a literal component in the work.

Knowledge, or know-how with a 'k' and then no-how without the 'k.' In between these two types of know-how and no-how-- the second no-how rather influenced by Samuel Beckett-- I would want to say that there are a range of types of productions of knowledge which we might want to scrutinize and examine in terms of the courtyard.

The project is scouting for a public space in the public space through the possibility of a scream. [ . . . ] The inaudible scream that lingers in those photographs perhaps brings into question their political existence.

I centre in my work a deal with a political and sociocultural reality, with objects, images, texts that move and disturb the status by questioning its meaning and appearances, by overturning the relations between the work and its space, and by instituting the viewer as an essentiel component of the work's sense.

A safe buoy floating above a prominent dark mauve backdrop emerges as a real existing presence and uncompromising contradiction of the visual. The object enlightens itself to be a display of a deceiving construct, revealing its true form through traces of paint. In view of this, I carry out a performative exploration of duration and its relationship to ideas of time and space through a profound investigation of painting.The image of faded middle-class "coziness" is one that lies at the heart of her photos. The result is a compelling, funny and often disturbing body of work that explores unconscious emotions, desires and sexual compulsions, all unified by an aesthetic that vacillates between the banal and the fantastic. Issues related to madness and alienation take shape, exploring feelings of anxiety, displacement and loss of identity.

His distortion and extension of the iconography of traditional carpets is a gesture symbolic of the destruction of cultural traditions in favor of progress and modernity. His understanding of the woven medium is evident, and allows him to skillfully manipulate traditional techniques and forms in carpets, sculptures and large-scale installations.