Evan Levy's poetry is an amalgamation of the influences processed and transformed by the artist. First of all, Levy is a nationalist and not an-insincere one at that. Apart from his affirmed beliefs about his country and its people's abilities, Levy draws a great deal of inspiration from the northern landscape. He states that, "As a nationalist, Canadian content isn't a choice, it is inevitable that 'Canadian' images are the most powerful for me . . . Canada is a country of wind and water - these are images of the north" For a city-weaned fellow, Levy captures these images extremely well, albeit with romantic apperception.

In the series Home Invasion, for instance, the suburban subdivision is explored photographically. For this work, I made colour panoramic photographs documenting rows of nearly identical assembly line homes at various stages of construction in order to question the implications of uniformity and assimilative living practices.

In the seventies and eighties Bolduc was celebrated as a bright star in the constellation of Canadian art. He was a heralded exhibitor in Andrew Hudson's /14 Canadians/ that introduced progressive Canadian Art at the Hirshhorn Museum, Washington. He held annual solo exhibitions dating from the early seventies; his works are in the collections of public collections from coast to coast. Of late, many have turned their gaze away from the visual pleasures of formalism. Recently, Bolduc completed and mounted a final show for Christopher Cutts Gallery, Toronto. Confident mastery of his craft combines with a humble acceptance of his personal place within art's cosmos; the final show is a triumph of the personality as well as of the hand.
In this project, curated by Jimena Blázquez Abascal, Turrell has managed to create the illusion that the sky is just within our reach, blurring the dividing line between matter and emptiness. To enter the skyspace is to come closer to the immensity of the cosmos, making one question the difference between vision and perception. Its importance also lies in the fact that it is Turrell’s first permanent site-specific work produced in Spain, and his largest in Europe.

—Julieta Aranda, Brian Kuan Wood, Anton Vidokle

We are flesh-and-blood sentient beings who have never been to "the other side." What happens to our identity after death is open to debate, but there is one desire that unites the many differing camps: the need toexplain, understand and express our awe at the extinction of life, the end of all things, and to do the same regarding existence’s possible continuation in an afterlife.

Perched above water in my studio, I look out each day at the mirror of Nature, the changing faces of weather and light, and of human works, the endless bustle of industry and traffic across the canal. No wonder that, traveling, I've been drawn most to those places where the great harbour cities open a space for the wild waters of rivers and seas, and civilize them, -- Singelgracht Canal, Rio delle Canaica, my Lachine Canal. When you've painted the waters long enough, they seep into everything: the studio floor, the still-life table, the palette of paints. You come in closer touch, too, with the Claude, Courbet and Kokoschka. The difficulties of the subject are great, but on the other hand, it's so wonderfully apt for the medium we use, fluid and willful, while pleased to offer reflection, translucency and movement.
Few of our paintings were being sold. Av Isaacs, friends and wives helped, but it was a financial juggling act. To my surprise and delight, teaching invigorated me and the close association with dedicated young artists kept me from becoming insular; it forced me to verbalize ideas and ideals that otherwise might have remained foggy and vague. It was during the early teaching days that my obsession with the Ontario North took hold.

Thus institutions end up filled with those who want nothing more than to destroy them—the European Parliament a shell stuffed with people shouting about how pointless it all is and how the whole thing should just be abolished. It is consequently possible to imagine every existing institution occupied by those who most want it abolished—prisons are already such a place, or schools, perhaps—but the banks are not yet filled with anticapitalists.

Durham has taken over the nave of the former church and turned it into a repository for a heteroclite collection of objects, residues and things: a communal grave, a subversive classification or a residual map of the world. The crux of the operation lies in introducing "the profane" in its deepest etymological meaning into the religious and aesthetic temple: everything that remains "before the temple", in other words what is "before" the feast or is excluded in order to invest the sanctum with its spatial purity. Pieces of cement, wire, refrigerators, barrels, bits of glass and residues of "the sacred", speak of the space of the exhibition hall in an attempt to connect the interior of the church with all that it threw out in order to be sacralised, which is to say, transforming it into a kind of "temple of confusion".
Unfortunately the Charlie's Books are too delicate to be exhibited; but as historical documents, with their cross references of (for example) four artists drawing each other at the same time, I'm convinced of their unique value. Within these pages are the sources of ideas that were later developed into major works. Hundreds of hilarious collages, outrageous puns and cartoons, loneliness expressed in the feminine curves of a glass lamp-chimney, recipes for pickerel bouillabaisse and wild rabbit stew, blood-covered pages decrying the kill, love letters to our ladies, indecipherable poems, cries, giggles, marks and angles; the beginnings of something.

The Anthropocene is "the age of man" that announces its own extinction. In other words, the Anthropocene thesis posits "man" as the end of its own destiny. Therefore, while the Anthropocene narrative keeps "man" at its very center, it marks the death of the posthuman and of antihumanism, because there can be no redeeming critical antihumanist or posthuman figure in which either metaphysics or technological and scientific advances would find a way to reconcile human life with ecology. In short, /images/ of the Anthropocene are missing. 

He was always on the lookout for perfection. Byars often eschewed any kind of materialisation in his works – they were mostly short-lived performances. However, Byars also had a flair for beautiful, solid, gleaming 'eternal materials' – for sandstone, marble, glass and gold. He created numerous sculptures and objects in an almost classical repertoire of forms – using elements such as the sphere, the circle, the
The exhibition includes documentarian approaches, such as works by Julia *Christensen*, who explores the transformation of defunct Big Box stores throughout the U.S. as an example of the resilience and resourcefulness of those affected most by the crisis. A piece by Yevgeniy *Fiks*, Olga *Kopenkina*, and Alexandra *Lerman*, documents those who were at the root of the crisis (Wall Street traders and corporate employees) participating in discussions on Lenin and his ideas on Imperialism. Films by Jan Peter *Hammer* and Melanie *Gilligan* reflect the artists’ fictionalized takes on the crisis, by drawing historical paralells and showing the microcosmic point of view of those directly involved, respectively.

Anxieties about alertness, agency, hypnosis, and the nightmares of a catatonic seizure of the popular will by "fascism" often rear their head in the wake of sweeping victories for right-wing parties. Are we

At the center of each Tibetan's life stands his or her unfaltering belief in Buddhism. Many of my photographs are taken in the monasteries of Tibet where the monks currently are rebuilding their religious communities following the destruction of over 6,000 of their monasteries by Chinese troops. /The Tibetans/ documents the living continuation of one of the most enigmatic and artistic world cultures, that of Tibetan Buddhism.
Au mur, des panneaux, dont le statut reste incertain; des lignes, des taches, des masses, un minimum d’interventions faites sur des contreplaqués accrochés d’une façon régulière. Ni vraiment surfaces brutes, ni vraiment dessins, ni vraiment peintures, ils forment une collection d’images indéfinies et floues dont le rapport de l’une à l’autre tient plus à une juxtaposition quasi aléatoire d’écarts et d’oppositions qu’à une continuité ou à une logique évidente. Ils participent d’une certaine forme d’indétermination.

Often times these themes are combined into installations that feature mundane domestic objects painted blue, juxtaposed with whimsical objects, and often embellished with stenciled text. The color blue establishes a dream-like surreal quality, suggests notions of calmness and safety, and formally unifies the disparate objects in each installation. The texts provide clues to content and interpretation.

Chromogenic print, 37-1/4 x 44-1/2 inches framed (94.6 x 113 cm), Edition of 7
*Hu Fang—Towards a Non-Intentional Space* There is a modest power that applies to both the art of gardens and that of farming, both of which reference natural laws of nourishment, preservation, and anticipation; although they are not revolutionary formulas, they both oppose contempt for life. As I see it, the art of the garden and the art of farming have always been concealed within the progress of modernity, but for a long time we have had no means to encounter them, no capacity for listening to the sounds of their presence.  

I used to think a lot. I thought the world was full of voices. I thought that things were events, information hurling itself down through time. I thought that separateness was the fundamental quality of things. I thought that anxiety, formerly distributed homogeneously through space, had congealed into lumps and rhythmic patterns, providing the soil for more sophisticated and implausible anxieties, the flowering of anxiety into sentient forms. I thought that places were separate but miraculously linked, and that space and time and pleasure had emerged somewhere in the tension that occurs between places. I thought that the subterranean quality of all things was random and content free. I thought about the fatal attraction of singularities, patterns and significances, that draw us inexorably, like a magnet, but always sidestep gracefully just when we’re about to gore them, because we don’t live in God but outside of Him. I thought, /So what? It doesn’t make my baby’s eyes bluer/.
Adapting itself to the evolution of world’s culture, the Guimet museum as a living place organizes cultural events connected to Asian cultures: film reviews, concerts, dance shows and theatre… artists are working at the crossroads between music and the visual arts. Which strategies characterise these works? Which effects do they attempt to evoke? And how do they relate to the extensive legacy of aural and visual experiments of the 20th century avant-garde? The exhibition resulting from these investigations includes more than 80 artworks ranging from painting, drawing, sculpture and installations, to photography, video and pure sound and focuses, with a few exceptions, on recent production. The musical input ranges from classical to rock, pop and independent but most of all the exhibition underlines how music and visual arts can be melted into a unique artistic vocabulary. Thus being a lively approach to the classical theme of a paragon of the arts, the emblematic example being the title-giving painting, /I Wish This Was A Song/ by British artist Tim Ayres.

—Julieta Aranda, Brian Kuan Wood, Anton Vidokle
The Cheonggyecheon Project, taking place against the backdrop of overlapping memories and images that characterize a complex city, will be an experiment on whether people can communicate through art.

The images used are often treated and manipulated using computers, color-photocopiers and other photo-mechanical techniques. They are edited, altered, distorted and have their colors shifted before being combined with drawn elements, paint and other media in the finished pieces.
My work centres on the body in large prints and drawings made on supports of paper, slate and cloth. The body fragments often stands alone as a signifier or is used in conjunction with fully represented bodies. I use the fragment to regain a sense of potency for the body image; to disassociate from a viewing of its as figure; to relate to it as subject. I am also interested in the ability of the fragment to both stand in for the whole and to trigger association in the viewer with meanings suggested by the symbolism of specific parts. The body parts function as glyphs (to be viewed either singly or in relation to each other) which are decoded in part through a sort of bodily understanding or cellular memory.
My taboo-ridden pieces are often like a putrid smell everyone tries to ignore. It's like licking make-up off someone's face and revealing their imperfections. I try to lick the audience's face with my gooey tongue in an effort to shake their framework of what constitutes the speakable. Just to see if I can. Just to see if you will listen.
I am concerned with historical dislocation, the break in the sense of connection which man has long felt with the vital and nourishing symbols of cultural traditions.

The Centro Cultural Montehermoso Kulturunea, in accordance with its desire to support creation and research in contemporary art and thought, announces a call for entries for a series of grants. The objective of this initiative, which is promoted by the Vitoria-Gasteiz City Council, is to facilitate the production of thirteen selected projects in the following categories.*100 Artists See God* continues the ICA’s investigation into new exhibition models that confront issues relevant to the wider concerns of today’s world. In a time where major belief systems clash against each other, often resulting in violent and tragic conflict, the ICA presents this exhibition as a response to Western society’s seemingly unquestionable belief in a rational understanding of the world. *100 Artists See God* proposes an open ended contemplation of highly complex reveal idiosyncratic, unexpected viewpoints, the exhibition allows viewers to formulate their own thoughts and concerns by simultaneously revealing and questioning the place of God today and showing how issues of spirituality thread their way through the entire fabric of international culture.

USA
Agnes Martin was born in Macklin, a town in Saskatchewan, Canada, in 1912. She grew up in Vancouver, then moved to Bellingham, Washington, in 1932. Martin gained a bachelor of science degree in 1942 and a master of arts degree in 1952 from Teachers College at Columbia University, while living intermittently in New Mexico. In 1957 she relocated to Coenties Slip in Lower Manhattan. She had her first one-person exhibition in 1958 at the Betty Parsons Gallery, New York. Surveys of her work have been presented at venues including the Institute of Contemporary Art at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia (1973), the Stedelijk Museum, Amsterdam (1991), and the Whitney Museum of American Art, New York (1992). She was awarded a Golden Lion at the Venice Biennial in 1997 and a National Endowment for the Arts National Medal of Arts in 1998, among other honors. From the late sixties until her death on December 16, 2004, Martin lived and worked in rural New Mexico.
There cannot be a more exciting tool with which to explore the most mysterious and fascinating subject known to mankind -- the human mind.

now than it was in the twentieth century. eBay, Craigslist, and Etsy have gutted thrift and antique stores across North America of all their good stuff, and in Paris, the Marché aux Puces de Saint-Ouen is but a shadow of its former self. eBay itself, once groaning with low-hanging fruit being sold by the clueless, is now a suburban shopping center with the occasional semi-okay vintage thingy still floating around. This same sense of sparseness is felt in the museum world, where the slashing of programming budgets remains the norm.
Produced between 1991 and 1997, the installation comprises a series of 22 volumes of the book of "Knowledge", and 47 individual book works, housed in two bookcases. Meant to simulate the scholarly tome, the book works are bound in leather with either cloth or hand-made cover-stock paper and their titles are embossed into the spine with gold leaf. The "library" furnishings have been designed to recall the neoclassical reading room. Large and overstated, the books and their cases favour the symbolic display of the values associated with these realms of knowledge over the accommodation of the subjects of that knowledge. By virtue of its particular content, however, this "library" directs the orientation of the viewer/reader away from the abstraction of the neoclassical ideal towards more material, immediate and concrete concerns. The books are made from the shredded fragments of one or more previously published books. The anarchistic juxtaposition of dissonant texts dramatically foregrounds the relationship between the reader and the work. Meaning is suspended in the dialectical confrontation between each of the original contents and their new forms: The reader provides the crucial link in this circuit of signification.
But this is not to say that people go unaltered by this kind of proliferation. And it is definitely not to say that scarcity goes away and all people become wealthy just because we can get our hands on lots and lots of computer files. No, it’s just to say that the nature of what we consider a resource has been profoundly redistributed across domains of knowledge and whatever its material base has become. Original and counterfeit mutually melt. Some things can be reproduced ad nauseam while others simply decay. It is where the simulacrum is no longer deceptive in its distance from the real but just really confusing when it comes to trying to locate actual resources.
Music is an important element in popular culture. It plays a role for the identity of people and social relationships. Like visual art it is culturally rooted, but it is also universal and independent of other language codes. Music and lyrics of songs can be poetry, manifestoes, political discourses; they can be gentle courting messages or declarations of conflict, entertaining or thought-provoking. Like an art work which makes you dwell in colours or dance around its forms, a piece of music can break all rational resistance and take you on a journey of sensual sensations. Like an art installation, an experimental music piece can build up an imaginary space with an almost architectonic quality or fill it up with sculptural presence. It is therefore no surprise that music has been appropriated by artists as part of their creative and expressive strategies, by playing with its qualities and valences as a raw material. Whilst parts of the exhibition will actually set the visitors into motion, others will halt them in contemplation. Mute instruments are turned into sculptures and installations invite us to imagine music with our eyes. Exploring the different artistic strategies that are employed to capture music in visual arts, the exhibition is organized in seven chapters:/Looking to the classics, Move it! //Performative Sculpture, Sing Along, Sounds of Silence, Synesthesia /and an extensive/Live /program throughout the course of the exhibition/./
These series of presentations and discussions will seek to trace the paradoxes faced by the art historical practice when it seeks to capture and interpret contemporary art in its permanent flux and fragmentation. The forum will also address the subject of multiple art histories, their endurance as valid narratives, and the ways through which these become the object of revisions.
My recent work employs different photographic forms (from the vernacular to high art) and borrows these forms to serve (unexpected) lesbian content. Using familiar forms I disrupt the comforting beauty of the surface to speak of issues that expand and contradict expectations.
Installation

My interest in Jacquard weaving started in 1997 when I read Ada Lovelace's quote: "The Analytical Engine weaves algebraic patterns just as the Jacquard loom weaves flowers and leaves". Ada's unique background in art and science, poetry and mathematics (her father was a poet and her mother a mathematician), reflects my own interests in science, art and language. Ada translated a text by Manabrea about Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine in 1843 and her notes, which took up more space than the original text, contained the above quote and the first instances of written software. The engine never quite worked, but contained the basic operating principles used by computers later. The process was derived from the Jacquard loom, which used punched cards to store and process complex information as zeros and ones. The Jacquard loom was developed in 1804 by Jacquard, in response to demands for weavings with elaborate imagery, influenced by fabrics brought back to Europe from Asia during the 18th century. Napoleon funded this new technology, to fill his empty war chest. The motifs feature mainly elaborate floral designs and thus provide an excellent forum for reinvesting patterning and imagery composed of flowers and leaves with new meanings. They also show unintended developments in technology.

It has been said that we live in the age of the image, and this age is also that of the displaced image. The current ubiquity of images has led to their multiple transformations. These shifts have occurred in many ways: images move and transform between worlds, techniques, media, contexts, and cultures. They are appropriated and re-signified, while being recycled for new uses, sometimes being quite dissociated from the • A rich presentation of Cai Guo-Qiang’s aesthetic iconography which is inspired by ancient mythology, military history, Taoist and Buddhist philosophy, cosmological science, pyrotechnic technology, Chinese medicine, and contemporary global conflict.

Props, events, encounters: the performance of new sculpture takes its cue from Mike Kelleys description of the inherent structure at work in the objects that he uses in his performances. He ascribes to these objects a self-governing ordering system that is enacted as they appear in his work, a system that differentiates between objects that stay in may or may not be revealed to the viewer. Many of these objects, left behind in the gallery, are residues of past events, imbued with the melancholia of lost opportunities. Others are detritus, arranged not so simply. /Props, events, encounters/ seeks to address the following questions: How are contemporary artists changing the status of the object in their work? How might these modifications be aided and abetted by the presence of the viewer? How do such shifts in attitudes towards objects reflect a changing politics in the status of contemporary sculpture? Props, events, encounters: the performance of new sculpture is generously supported by The Henry Moore Foundation and Outset. In this international group exhibition drawing, by nature in flux and mobile, is combined with animation techniques to create disjointed, deeply affecting narratives. As Barry Doupé points out, "Commercial computer animation has been on an unsuccessful quest for humanistic realism, in that it often tries to reproduce the human form precisely". This exhibition exploits the capacity of drawing to bring characters to life, however basic they might be, a tradition much exploited through cartoons and caricature, and through simple animation techniques.

In Raunig’s analysis the university, and the humanities in particular, are a political matter, not because of their supposedly "disinterested beauty," alienated from any social and political context, but precisely because they constituted a zone of critique, resistant to marketization and financialization, and they therefore enrich the cultural experience of contemporary individuals.

overbearing convictions of a noisy, complicated, and ultimately fascinating city.

Marman and Borins have been invited to speak at a number of galleries and institutions, including: the National Gallery of Canada, The Power Plant’s Hub-Bub series, the Art Gallery of Ontario, University of Toronto, the Ontario College of Art and Design and Syracuse University.
Definitions of 'nature' reveal a range of contradictory meanings. Nature often suggests that which is separate from human activity and is used to project desires seemingly unattainable, thus "nature becomes romanticized, patronized and forever the passive recipient of our desires" (Kate Soper, /What is Nature? Culture, Politics and the non-Human)/. Donna Haraway in the Cyborg Manifesto proposes more fluid boundaries between humans, animals and machines instead of defining them in opposition. She suggests: "We are all chimeras, theorized and fabricated hybrids of machine and organism; in short we are Cyborg" and "The Cyborg myth subverts myriad organic wholes, in short, the certainty of what counts as nature - as a source of insight and promise of innocence - is undermined, probably fatally." /(Simian, Cyborgs, and Women: The Reinvention of Nature)/. Computers and weaving have been connected in Sadie Plant's essay: /The Future Loom: Weaving Women and Cybernetics'/ and her book /'Zeros and Ones'/', which discuss weaving as digital processing of data. Weaving, of course, is, and always has been a digital process.

An occupation keeps people busy instead of giving them paid labor. An occupation is not hinged on any result; it has no necessary conclusion. As such, it knows no traditional alienation, nor any corresponding idea of subjectivity. An occupation doesn’t necessarily assume remuneration either, since the process is thought to contain its own gratification. It has no temporal framework except the passing of time itself. arrest occupiers wearing as little as a folded bandana on the forehead, leaving little doubt about their fear of Carnival as a potent form of political protest.
I stayed on in New York for the next eight years, painting and doing odd jobs, including work as an assistant film editor. Although never interested in making my own movies, my painting was informed by the narrative structure of film.

*_Arseny Zhilyaev—Conceptual Realism: The Vulgar Freedom of Avant-Garde Museum Work_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/conceptual-realism-the-vulgar-freedom-of-avant-garde-museology> Indeed, the transformation of the museum into a work of conceptual art would have been an extraordinary event not only for the art of socialist realism, but also for the Western artistic quest of those years. Nowadays, the ideas of vulgar sociologism that the Proletkult workers and the representatives of the "sociological" school of museum display were charged with still sound horrible to most intellectuals.

So I contain it in the square, with quicksilver paint that sets up as fast as you can put it down. "oh and I remember something you once told me, and I’ll be damned if it did not come true: twenty thousand roads that I went down down down and they all led me straight back home to you."

I create installations, sculptures and paintings reflecting on social issues and the human condition. Originally from South Africa, I became a Canadian citizen in 2011. In the 90's I created walk-in situational paintings, often with audio. 'The Death of Lucas' was inspired by a mob murder that took place in front of me. The story is on my website.

During the same dates, *The Abstract Cabinet* of *sala rekalde* will host the project */Here and now! New forms of feminist action./* This exhibition is proposed as a space for encounter, reflection, debate and resistance around ways of doing that incorporate feminist thought, queer politics and postcolonial discourses in artistic practice. The exhibition focuses on different editorial practices developed internationally within the format of fanzines, magazines, and other kinds of editorial proposals. The publications included in the show such as *Cuntstunt, Iconoclasistas, Artísimas, Tomboi, Malmoe, Prolongue, Grrrrl Zine Network, Girl Like Us, Mujeres Públicas, Belcro, O.R.G.I.A., Regina* and *Pripublikarrak* among many others fit within the parameters of DIY, at the junction between editing, artistic practice, feminism and collaboration

This work is visually analogous to 'sampling' techniques now used in recording music where existing parts and pieces of music recordings or other recordings are taken, altered and combined with original material to form a new whole. In many ways, Stewart's work functions as a kind of visual sampling. Features of Stewart's work recall aspects of a number of issues currently of critical interest. The use of text has been a prominent and constant feature of this work. Issues of appropriation are raised in the use of photographic and documentary resources.

During the period from 1985 to1986, overt symbolism was gradually replaced by an interest in perceptual distortion. The images are made from observation and found media images. But these paintings are really about space. The extreme concavical distortion of empty rooms draws the viewer into the painting. The viewer becomes Subject. The viewer's perception of the invented spatial illusion is the content of the paintings.

Americans against capitalism? Arab nations toppling autocrats through peaceful protests? 2011 has been a year of massive popular uprisings—on a completely unexpected scale and from populations that were thought to have been thoroughly subdued. Commentators have predicted that discontent in the Arab world would soon come to a head for so many years that it was beginning to seem unlikely, just as others had begun to dismiss the political potency of popular demonstrations in fiscalized Western democracies. For those who started to think that large-scale, radical optimism was naïve or nostalgic, the events of the past year should be sufficient to prove them wrong.
Fraser says the key word to this show is "gorgeous," an ongoing interest of hers. In the last year she has been in the Venice Biennale; the formal voice of these circumlocutions, though, a sense of outrage simmers, ready to boil over.

The spaghetti is not just theoretical but a literal component in the work.
Most are aware, when I exhibit a new body of work, that work is based on the extrapolation of an idea. And, as deep, and as varied in appearance as the /Plan for Painting Series/ are the working method applicable to their making is as programmatic as the method applied to the making of the /To Foil Oils/. At the structural level, a programmatic approach to the making of a group or series of paintings is a way of investigating the resonance of an idea through the convention of a serial format. Thus, the idea of realizing in a serial abstract paintings a multiplicity of mental perspective rooted to the specification of the medium through its relation to colour, material, and sensation provides viewers with the means to appreciate a rich and inexhaustible mother load of perception.
As a newly minted Lacanian feminist, I hoped that I was reclaiming both subject positions; on one hand I was trying to invest the female nude with erotic potential that might be more complex, and on the other I was trying to inhabit the role of the male protagonist.
//The Virtual Library// is an installation of hand-made book works that offers a satirical reflection on the current status of "The Book" in western culture. The advent of virtual worlds of information has brought about a number of changes to the social and cultural practices that sustain the nature of book-based knowledge. For one, the relationship of the reader to the text has changed. So too have the material means through which the authority of the text is achieved. In fact the structures of a broad spectrum of processes, institutions and industries built upon the physical transmission and representation of knowledge have been affected by a technologically expanded information universe. In form and content, /The Virtual Library/ promotes reflection on the historical processes that underpin these transformations.

Will be off their heads
In the late sixties, *Jürgen Klauke* placed his own body at the center of his photographic work. The directness of his early series has a new relevance for a young generation of artists. An interview.
Joe Coleman’s nihilistic view of murder as salve is echoed in Jubal Brown’s /Death Day Suit (with Self-Inflicted Wounds)./ However, where Coleman directs his destructive tendencies outwards towards humanity, Brown directs them at himself. The video was inspired by Lisa Steele’s seminal video /Birthday Suit/, in which the artist, nude, shows her many scars in front of the camera, and describes how they were acquired. Steele’s scars were the result of falls and accidents. Brown’s, in contrast, are self-inflicted.

Her first solo exhibition in the UK, this introduction to Geta Brătescu’s singular vision comprises significant works from 1970 to the present day and includes a newly commissioned large scale collage for the entrance of the gallery. Brătescu (born 1926) studied fine art and literature in Bucharest and developed a practice that encompasses textiles, printmaking, performance and installation. She places a particular emphasis on the act of drawing across different media, stating "for me, the line is the essence." In recent years, Brătescu’s distinctive practice has focused on collage, or "drawing with scissors" as the artist describes it. Her work has remained consistent in her questioning of identity and our place in the world, and her dedication to the drawn line. 

Desire often results from understanding the process. Understanding may be gained through observation of existing chains. The critical opinion provides opportunity for observation of a secondary link.

"every day I’m making ground . . . "2
The international soloist ensemble *zeitkratzer* from Berlin examines Compostela is an exhibition which has been organized around ten individual projects by artists who share their use of photography and video, as well as a remarkable interest for the reflection on everyday issues and references to natural and human landscape, urban architectures, monuments or peripheral neighborhoods, but also to aspects, which are more difficult to symbolize, like the physiognomy – spiritual, sentimental and mood-related- of a city or even the human landscape. More than a collective exhibition on the city, Compostela is a series of entwined projects, which try to compete with and to show the present of the town.
The conceptual elements of monochrome, the objectification of paint pigments, the reflection of colour, movement and form, become central in the artist’s research, and are codified and translated into a new metaphysics of the painted surface, in a new form of abstraction, strongly lyrical, where the reference to photography appears evident.
POWER STATION in Singapore will feature a white van traveling and stopping at various spots throughout the island. During each stop, the national anthems of selected countries will emanate from the van, while badges bearing words such as Art Power, Money Power and Media Power will
Printmaker George Raab has gained an international reputation for his wilderness landscape etchings. His intaglio images are made by creating grooves and textures below the surface of zinc or copper plates. The techniques he uses most frequently are etching, aquatinting, photo etching, and watercolour painting. In etching, primarily used to create lines, the surface of the plate is covered with a liquid acid-resistant ground. Tools are used to draw through the dried ground so that when immersed in an acid bath, the exposed metal is bitten. Aquatinting is a tonal process. Rosin powder is fused using heat to selected bare sections of the plate and the resulting acid bite creates an even texture. In both these methods, the longer the exposure to the acid, the darker the area will appear in the print. In photo etching, a manipulated monochromatic photographic negative is enlarged onto litho film. It is then reworked by scratching out areas and adding to the image by drawing directly on the film with India ink. The litho film is then contacted onto the sensitized metal plate and hand worked below the surface using the preceding techniques, some of which date back to the 16th Century. The plate is cleaned, hand inked and wiped for each printing. The ink fills in wherever the metal has been disturbed. Prints are pulled on damp rag paper, which is subjected to the great pressure of a manually operated printing press. Some of the resulting images are then hand watercoloured.
The primary theme of this work is lesbian public sex – as metaphor and practice. The work contests assumptions around the use of public space and lesbian sexual practice. In this series of photographs I claim dark corners of the city, and populate them with a lesbian (sexual) presence. A lesbian 'flaneur’ couple wanders the sensual Montreal night.
This photographic element of /Corner of the Studio/ is in fact a single image cut into four parts. The photograph was first cut in half, after which a rectangular section was then cut from each half, thus providing four segments that were then laminated onto separate canvases, all of which were arranged to approximate the coherence of the original photograph. The specificity of each segment, which is identified by its photographic information, is also determined by the dynamic spatial contrasts, textures and colours of the 'abstract’ sections of the canvas area which replace the areas of the 'cut-away’ section of each part of the original photograph, and thus this excision of photographic space has provided a catalyst for a latent painterly practice.

*_Raqs Media Collective—Planktons in the Sea: A Few Questions Regarding the Qualities of Time_* <http://e-flux.com/journal/view/243> Our mortality should be the gold standard of our life’s transactions with other lives. It is the metal to which we can peg all our currencies, all our instances of giving and taking to each other. Once we die, we can neither give nor receive, and all attempts to evade this fact, whether through inheritances or estates, are basically arbitrary attempts to pretend that death had in fact not occurred.
Sestriere, in the Italian alps, has a unique topography that will allow the six new projects to take advantage of the varied settings, providing different levels for vantage and entrance points for each of the projects. As the event coincides with the Winter Olympics, the participants have taken into account the implications of sport and incorporated it into their design, bringing architecture and contemporary art to an international and mainstream audience of millions.
In the United States, all living white tigers are the result of selective inbreeding to artificially create the genetic conditions that lead to white fur, ice-blue eyes and a pink nose. Kenny was born to a breeder in Bentonville, Arkansas on February 3, 1999. As a result of inbreeding, Kenny is mentally retarded and has significant physical limitations. Due to his deep-set nose, he has difficulty breathing and closing his jaw, his teeth are severely malformed and he limps from abnormal bone structure in his forearms. The three other tigers in Kenny’s litter are not considered to be quality white tigers as they are yellow-coated, cross-eyed, and knock-kneed.

*_Christa Blümlinger—An Archaeologist of the Present_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/an-archaeologist-of-the-present/> He himself liked to speak in metaphors and analogies; his line of argument often took pictorial detours, forming chains and series much like his shot sequences.

While, clearly, intellect plays a significant role in the process, more important is my desire to embed an emotional code into the paintings. Through a subjective and intuitive process of trial and error I am developing a language built of marks that is, not surprisingly, very difficult to quantify in words.
Between 28 March and 31 May, the Fundación Botín exhibition hall in Santander will be hosting the 21st edition of the /Itinerarios /exhibit, an annual showcase that is now celebrating its 21st anniversary as a virtual gauge for the state of the arts and which year after year offers a virtual snapshot of the predominant trends in the field, both within Spain and abroad. 

/As substance, artistic thinking is more important than medical thinking, since art may inform and contribute to the latter, while the opposite is less likely. However, as crafts go, a surgeon is more important for society than a painter is./

Now being held for the third time, the Tirana Biennale, has not only established itself as an international art event, but also plays a significant role in the process of growth taking place in Albania, a country that has intuited to what extent culture can represent a point of departure, rather than one of arrival, in economic development. In conjunction with its forthcoming issue’s theme section, /Cabinet/ magazine is inaugurating "The Accident," a series of programs that will examine how the "accidental event" has been understood in the philosophical, cultural, and scientific imagination since early modernity. Of little intellectual value until then because of its apparently insignificant singularity, the accident has since the 17th century been recast into an occurrence that raises fundamental questions about the way the world is ordered. issues but has actually provoked, and in court defended, them: concepts such as intellectual property issues, file sharing, media literacy, creative activism in a media-saturated multinational world, evolving notions of art and ownership, and law in a digital age.
The physicality of Marman and Borins’ work is central to their artistic practice. The resulting effect is sculpture that appears to be commercially produced, blurring the distinction between the mass-produced and the unique art object and thereby addressing the tensions between popular culture and the museum. This strong formal approach is contrasted by elements within their work that can be audacious, humorous and symbolically charged, with content often including mass media references. The result is work that echoes with art historical, popular culture, and structural significance. Philosophically they are interested in issues of subjectivity, mass visual language and the beholding of the work of art.
Knowledge, or know-how with a 'k' and then no-how without the 'k.' In between these two types of know-how and no-how-- the second no-how rather influenced by Samuel Beckett-- I would want to say that there are a range of types of productions of knowledge which we might want to scrutinize and examine in terms of the courtyard.

The exhibition combines archival material and examples of historic printed matter from émigré political agitators, alongside a rolling programme of documentary films; as well as exhibited video works by Adam Chodzko, Germano Facetti and Andrew Kötting.

*It’s a small world* focuses on Danish design, craft and architecture in relation to a new international design agenda and examines the role of design as problem-solver in a world filled with surplus production and an endless supply of products. Global challenges such as sustainability and, not least, the growing demand for individual, non-standardised solutions, make both specialisation and flexibility key concerns at every stage of the design process. The interaction between individual preferences and global needs is the background for the debate.
*Trois sculptures*

I try to make my art visually uplifting and spiritually positive. I aim to extend the traditional language of painting through my own vision, intuition and invention.

Ives Maes photographs any architectural remains of these short-lived events and the sites on which they were built, often revealing an ironic contrast between the grand futuristic ideals of the time and the urban reality of the modern world. The exhibition pavilions expressed a utopian vision of promise for the future. cooperation with Ghent City Archive).
The "narrative" of /Charles Baudelaire Long Dong Silver and Le petit prince/ is concerned with the interdependence of oppositional forms. Simultaneously rarified and stubbornly banal, the book’s very materiality directs its critical force. Form and content, image and text, high culture and low: all mutually dependent terms. As staged seductions give way to real desires, so too do the worlds of art and commerce converge.

The body parts are used in conjunction with referenced to cultural artifacts, contemporary and ancient. In the resulting composite images/objects various time periods and locations coexist simultaneously. Tablets, textiles, scrolls, sculptures, paintings, maps, manuals and medical illustrations are alluded to; some from long extinct civilizations. The human desire to leave a mark, to alter the terrain, to create and understand is mapped onto the body in the form of excerpted images and texts, tables, diagrams and designs. The body presents a site for the writing of these histories and for the examination of diverse systems of knowledge, organization and understanding.
I have been looking at space inside and outside and wondering why I can never see or detect space the way I perceive it in any depiction I perceive. Can space exist as a distinct entity? Can space exist outside a continuum of polarity? Can space exist as other than object and yet not be perceived as negative either quantitatively or qualitatively? Can space within space be shown? Can feminine space by virtue of its actual possession exert a vocabulary and perception imagined differently, that change ways of knowing? My intellectual interest is focused on the language and perception of space on a two dimensional plane; not illusion as in trompe l‚oeil, but as an entity in and of itself; space as force. *1* I question the vocabulary of painting, in particular, the term negative space. I suggest that extant vocabulary and therefore perception for these questions is obsolete. I also suggest that it is imperative to develop new ways of decribing what we see in order for perception to change and for understanding to evolve. Along with formal education both in Canada and New York, Freudian psychoanalysis, experience, and observation , informing my inquiry have been readings from Norman Bryson , in particular, Looking At The Overlooked, Four Essays On Still Life Painting, Sound and Symbol, by Victor Zuckerkandl, A Brief History of Time by Stephen Hawking, Being and Nothingness by Jean-Paul Sartre, The Poetics of Space by Gaston Bachelard and writings of John Cage and Frank Stella.

In the greater view of Dominó Caníbal, a year-long project which will see another six artists intervening, destroying, resignifying and devouring the banquet that he has created here, Durham’s installation and opening move in the game is like 28 double sixes or having desecrated the temple with the corpse of everything. Jimmie Durham’s challenge to Cristina Lucas, The Bruce High Quality Foundation, Kendell Geers, Tania Bruguera, Rivane Neueschwander and Francis Alÿs throughout 2010 at Sala Verónicas in Murcia might well be summed up by a monstrous mandate: "Bring that stuff in Here!" Which is to say, keep on contaminating this false paradise.source: http://www.e-flux.com/announcements/kim-beoms-animalia/

My resulting sculptural and installation work is multi-layered with uncertain depth of focus.Adapted from https://www.pinterest.com/vkartapart/:
Les diagrammes techniques et illustrations schématiques détachés de leurs sources, " édités " et dépouillés de leur sens original peut être apparenté à du dessin pur ou peut prendre des qualités obscures, mystérieuses ou même gnostiques. Il règne ainsi une conscience de la mutabilité des signes. L'ambiguïté des valeurs symboliques des référents est exploitée par leur réarrangement dans le cadre de l'œuvre. Dans ces œuvres, l'ambivalence et la distorsion des signes est donnée plutôt que critiquée, elle se remarque au passage et est utilisée pour construire la proposition ou le thème de l'œuvre.
In 1953 I would occasionally be asked to work late in order to serve drinks to a strange and gregarious group of people who congregated in Jack Bush's office. They loved to yell and scream at each other. I actually saw one of them, Harold Town I think, rolling around on the floor with Oscar Cahen indulging in fake fisticuffs. They must have been having fun. /Pugilistic possums/. They were the Painters Eleven. Little did I know the historical significance of these formative gatherings. During this period, Jack was changing from naturalistic art to abstract art, which of course had an enormous effect on me. It was an extremely exciting time though I was full of doubts about it, and about totally abstract art in particular - it had never been seen in Toronto. Shortly thereafter I left and got a better job, on Jack's advice. He said, 'You're finished your apprenticeship here and now you've got to get out into the world and start making some money, and some art.' I got another job for something like thirty dollars a week doing lettering and silkscreen posters. The members of Painters Eleven never said much to me beyond, 'Get me another drink, will you boy!' They had the door closed. But I heard rumbles and mumbles as they wrote, wrestled with the group statement for their first exhibition announcement; and talked in a new exciting code, with words such as 'non-objective,' 'action-painting,' 'stream of conscious,' and 'abstract!' At that time Tom Hodgson was one of the youngest, most brilliant painters.
Can it be said that art has a consciousness of its own? And if such a consciousness were independent of us, where would it place us in relation to itself?

Front. Those authorities attentive to the evidence of this metabolic rift usually imagine four ways of mitigating its effects. One is that the market will take care of everything. Another proposes that all we need is new technology. A third imagines a social change in which we all become individually accountable for quantifying and limiting our own carbon "footprint." A fourth is a romantic turn away from the modern, from technology, as if the rift is made whole when a privileged few shop at the farmer’s market for artisanal cheese. None of these four solutions seems quite the thing. 
My experience as a printmaker made it a logical step to combine the actual techniques of paper marbling with watercolour. The majority of my smaller works on paper were made using this method. The figure in each piece, orchid or frog was drawn in the paper and then protected by a stencil. Paints were then manipulated on the surface of a viscous fluid, and then transferred by contact to the paper. Later, the stencil was removed and the rest of the image painted in.

Sometimes sublime reactions can be aroused in the viewer. Understanding what we perceive in a painting cannot be measured in space and time. The shifting representation of conventional truth resides on the surface of memory. The memory and history of perception is kept alive in the manual tracings of painting, recording the internal reality of our transient lives.
/Consciousness is a singular of which the plural is unknown and what appears to be the plurality is merely a series of different aspects of this one thing./
The major theme in my work is the human condition -- our relationship to the environment -- our relationship to each other.

He came to attention in the early seventies through his exhibitions at the prestigious Carmen Lamanna Gallery, Toronto. These works were taut, refined all-over monochrome compositions operating within the tradition of reductive, geometric abstraction utilizing homogenous treatments or a single mark-gesture repeated consistently across the entire surface. They were shown in the company of a band of minimalist-inclined painters: Brice Marsden, David Diao, Les Levine and Paterson Ewen. By mid 1970s, he and fellow Lamanna exhibition mate, Ewen were breaking free of this mould. Both had spent time studying at the school of the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts, and their new work sprang forth with vivid colour and accentuated linear mark-making. Their works shown in the 1975 exhibition /The Canadian Canvas/ signaled the dawning of a new art. While Ewen gravitated towards New Image figuration and landscape, Bolduc evolved a unique signature approach to central imagery abstraction.

With the advent of Google, Wikipedia and the global embrace of an easy-share, watered-down aesthetic in everything from architecture to graphic design, so-called innovations to connect the world and make it seem smaller also raise the question of what constitutes "collective memory." Artists are often early barometers of change, and an interest in archiving and reclaiming one’s own history has recently become a prominent topic. By unearthing overlooked themes in the art of the
La troisième occupe un espace irrégulier et vague au sol, et est composée de cinq éléments plutôt courbes, bombés, qui semblent s’être en partie affaissés les uns sur les autres. Ils pourraient être issus d’un seul volume, éclaté. Les faces externes sont texturées, rugueuses et sombres, les faces internes lisses et pâles; les tranches sont brutes et laissent évident leur mode de construction. Les cinq sont de dimensions à peu près semblables, mais leurs orientations varient. Près de la première et de la deuxième sculpture, la troisième semble un peu délinquante, une inversion.

The Artist represents a young woman crouching on the ground surrounded by a protective aura. The attitude of the body represented in a defensive and gentle position seems to ask for help and protection; the aura appears to be the Divine aid the young lady is looking for. The lady is lying disoriented in a fetal position: she doesn't know where to go, what to do, whom to rely on . . .  but like a new birth will regenerate new energy to face life!
Since architecture is so fundamentally nostalgic it has not been able to develop a discourse and an ideology that accepts the real conditions that cities offer now. The architectural profession is stuck, which forces it to almost reject anything that really happens and to design public space in a neurotic and authoritarian way. The other space that architects and thinkers about architecture neglect in terms of not reflecting on it is the political system, which enters the picture with incredible brutality.  
Repetition in architecture today, as in every other cultural sphere, attests to the historical impasse at which society has lingered for almost a century. Architects find themselves forced to recycle, reorder, and repeat novelties of the past in order to remain "cutting-edge" in the present. No longer does the steady march of technological progress provide a path for architecture to follow.  If, like me, you have experienced telepathic reception, then you know that you can never trust telepathic signals, because telepathic signals are always accompanied by something else. They are always accompanied by telepathic noise.
Leopold Plotek’s titles invoke antiquity, scripture, mythology, Jewish mysticism, and Artie Shaw-and electic list that parallels the wide-ranging pictorial allusions of his mysterious, audacious paintings. Plotek aspires to the drama, seriousness, and sensuousness of the Venetian Renaissance and the High Baroque, ambitions that these days are usually synonymous with postmodernist irony and appropriation. The Montreal based Plotek, however, neither quotes verbatim nor updates historical compositions. Instead, he strives to invent in his own abstract language the qualities of past art that he admires-he casts the Grand Manner into late-20th-century terms and he filters the highest of high art through high modernism, all with street smart overtones.
Beyond their permanence, platinum prints also have a unique appearance. They are amazingly luminous, and even appear to be three-dimensional. This results from the enormous tonal scale composing the platinum image. A silver photograph can never have more than ten or twelve separated grey tones: the values of the negative are compressed and amputated when printed on silver paper. With up to 500% more scale, the platinum print has by far the most expanded tonal range of any image, in any medium, in the world.

<http://www.e-flux.com/journal/holding-up-the-world-part-iii-in-the-event-of-precarity-%e2%80%a6-a-conversation-between-elizabeth-povinelli-and-lauren-berlant/> Desperation is a taxing noise that gets more or less intense. Sometimes in the places of economic cushion, emotional austerity is the norm for virtue, and waste makes ordinary action toxic and the atmosphere cortisol-cranky. I always try to remember that what we call the structural reproduction of life is about the relation of concentrations of wealth to other forms of social value and not just of who has the money.
Much later in Provence, faced with the Celto-Ligurian head cult of Entremont and Roquepertuse, I asked myself if it were not perhaps this
Since 1992, her research on identity has been carried out through the creation of installations where she uses material that has a link to her past and interests her today: fabric, women's clothing, wire netting and mesh, sponge, string, buttons, orange peel, etc., everyday objects that she finds among other places at Salvation Army thrift shops. Using this as her raw material, she transforms it, being inspired by the characteristic features of these materials such as their softness, weightiness, smoothness, or at times their hardness and denseness, always creating abstract objects. Her approach has similarities to that of Louise Bourgeois and Annette Messager, although both these artists work in a more narrative vein.
Transient Encounters: We recognise the temporary nature of the biennale format, as well as the mutable boundaries of the notions it proposes to address. Life is not about the solid stabilities suggested by historical constructs. Living requires facing continuous changes and the openness to experience the significance of chance, passing encounters.
In my late twenties I began to pack in boxes of paint, bolts of canvas. I would go into the bush and seek out young poplars, to make an easel out of them, always using the local elements. Sometimes I'd utilize the wooden window shutters or the cedar shingle siding of the cabin, stretching the canvases over them. Consequently, I would get an indelible impression of what it was I was painting upon, soaking through the canvas. Up north I paint in the daytime, simply because at night I live by the light of coal oil lamps. I've tried working at night in the cabin and had some fun with it, with fifty candles burning at once; I nearly burned the place down. The colour, of course, is entirely different when you see it the next day. I concluded I couldn't do major works in the dark. So I began working in notebooks - collages, drawings, cartoons, ideas, prints, poems. Working in what we now refer to as Charlie's Books became a communal activity. Coughtry, Markle, Kubota and my friend John O'Keefe, the writer-sea captain, would visit and occasionally stay for a month at a time. Every evening, after a delicious dinner, the big square table would be cleared. There would follow the inevitable elbowing for room to draw, as everyone tried to grab more lamplight than the next guy. It was a delight; instead of playing cards or reading to pass the dark night, we'd be doing these books simultaneously. Occasionally we'd work in each other's books; the overlaps are pretty interesting. There was much playing of chess, drinking, talking, and laughter; but mostly we busied ourselves, entertaining each other with those marvelous books. And there was always music, thanks to a battery-operated record player -- I spent more money on batteries than on art supplies.
at Städelschule Academy Frankfurt Sculptural Department *How will future designers work, and how does Danish design address global issues such as sustainability, new technology and consumption? The exhibition it’s a small world challenges the Danish design tradition and explores future design practices in a global perspective.*
The exhibition, which is the first major survey of Yeats work to take place in Ireland in almost forty years, compares his work of the 1920s, when he was firmly rooted in reality, with the wildly apocalyptic visions and romanticism of his later period.

As with all of my photographs of unsettled world communities, /The Tibetans/ are black-and-white prints meant to capture the timeless isolation of a unique world culture. Many of these images have a dark and somber presence as they were taken inside the mysterious candle-lit sanctuaries of Tibet's Buddhist monasteries.

These highways follow routes from one point to another, with converging and diverging overpasses and roads; they are spaces of passage. The architecture and landscape of these urban outskirts, with their airports and hotels, acts as a transitional zone passed through enroute to unknown destinations. These paintings often employ a single point perspective: the vantage point of the passenger during the journey. The viewer is the sole passenger in these empty vistas. Often one or two planes in the distance intersect the view. Some of the paintings depict the architecture of the side views off these transitional routes; frozen glimpses of anonymous industrial parks, interstitial fields, hydro towers and subdivisions. It is this unattainable frozen viewpoint, from which I experience these passing vistas via the photographic process that creates the sense of displacement.
These paintings want to move. Their rhythm is that of theAM radio. They shake and jiggle and they can't keep their legs still. They chug and clank like the trains on the railway tracks of my youth. They spin quietly like the inner workings of a wrist watch. They're Professor Longhair and Hank Williams talkin' bout the latest Beach Boys record. They are the colour of billboards, shopping bags and old factories. They are the colour of pop cans and plastic shoes. Floating on the surface are the leftover bits of shapes, carved out by my brush - like pop ups on a computer screen, like the flotsam and jetsam of old sputniks and appolos coursing through space. They're constantly squabbling. The ordered and the messy jostling for supremacy. These paintings are like siblings stuck in the back seat on a long summer drive: They draw invisible lines, defining impervious boundaries between each other, broached easily by wandering fingers.

The photography is my own, with the exception of obvious historical sources. I have traveled extensively in Northern Thailand, the home of my husband's family. He is of the Karen hilltribe who reside along the Thai/Burmese (now Myanmar) border. My work features the people of this tribe and their neighbours primarily. I am interested in the idea of "The Other", whether it is my husband within my culture or myself within his. I try to explore issues of culture clash; including the subjugation of a people, condescending attitudes toward their beliefs and customs, and the appropriation and commercialization of "exotica" for western consumption.

These landscapes were made to be decorative but taken from reality. Surface forms are flattened, using paint stains that soaked into the canvas. The colour is arbitrary. These painting were done after the death of my mother and so include skeletal forms. My feeling then was that all of life has an underlying layer of suffering and death.

La démarche de Janet Logan repose sur la prémisse suivante : la recherche identitaire et la mémoire. Pour y parvenir, il lui faut retourner dans le passé, mais cela signifie nécessairement façonner, interpréter et inventer son passé. Les titres de quelques-unes de ses expositions solo sont d'ailleurs révélateurs de ses préoccupations, /Mémoires et rêves, Sucrerie et conte de fées, Mythes, mémoires et réalités/, ainsi que le titre de certaines de ses œuvres, tel /Elle a été élevée dans du coton/. Qui est donc Janet Logan? Une femme, féiniste, dessinatrice de costume pour le théâtre, peintre, artiste en art visuel (installations), traductrice, une anglophone qui évolue dans un milieu francophone, sans parler de ses traits de caract�re propres qui ne sont pas l'objet de notre réflexion, mais qui sont partie intégrante de son identité.
The imprisoned men were poor, mostly Eastern European immigrants carrying Austro-Hungarian citizenship, having emigrated from countries then under Austro-Hungarian rule. Many were already naturalized Canadian citizens and their sons, born on Canadian soil. They were not enemies of Allied forces. The largest group interned were Ukrainians who, 30 years earlier, were encouraged to immigrate by the same government because they were hard-working and superb farmers. Though surrounded by beauty, the internees lived under miserable conditions.
/Ivan Kožarić. Freedom Is a Rare Bird/ is organized by Haus der Kunst in cooperation with the Museum of Contemporary Art Zagreb.
Working with clay influences the printmaking, encouraging a sculptural approach. The plates composed of stitched and reconstructed industrial roofing copper gives a second reading of strength and organic tracings embossed into the paper, reaffirming perceptions of fragility and transience.

And yet what rescues Fukuyama’s intellectual integrity from those who prefer to set him up as a free-market huckster is how he so beautifully expresses reservations about the very posthistorical condition he professes. He closes the essay by writing:
It would appear that this ambivalent attitude to time was especially linked to the prehistoric Celtic or Gallic world, and there is further evidence that it persists to some extent in the Celtic mind today. It is consistent, I think, with Yeat’s tragic view of life--an essentially cosmologic and aristocratic attitude in opposition to the narrow expediency of the "greasy till":

Such is the information contained in a bee’s dance; which include the sun-oriented, hourly-changing direction from the hive to a field of flowers.
My initial inquiry has propelled me through long and various experiments with different media (painting with blow torch on wood, etched wax, drawings on opened burlap bags, to name some) until constructing black velvet tarpaulins with painted extraction markings or space form abstractions, some with text as space and some with timed based projections. In a serious effort to articulate cerebrally, esthetically and viscerally the results of my investigations, and in effect demonstrate with the medium - the message, I will continue to research with the following elements:

3. The photographer must also become something of an organic chemist. Complex solutions are carefully mixed from scratch, and measured out in tiny amounts, to make the light-sensitive emulsion that will coat the paper. Solid platinum is dissolved with potassium and chlorine in a series of acid baths; the acid is replaced with water, and the solution is crystallized into a platinum salt. This is combined with light-sensitive iron salts (ferric oxalte). Modern platinum printers usually intermingle platinum with palladium of iridium salts, to produce subtle variations in "warmth" (soft brown color) and contrast. The photographer must rely upon experience and instinct-and good luck-to achieve the desired effects.

*_Hito Steyerl—Beginnings_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/beginnings/> A good beginning holds a problem in its most basic form. It looks effortless, but rarely is. A good beginning requires the precision and skill to say things simply. Like the crafts of making bricks, weapons, or files on hard drives, there is an art of creating beginnings.

shoddy Situationist stunt and one of those T-shirts that corrupt corporate logos: The sign was peeled of the wall by a pill-popping clubber who stuck it to
/We Irish, born into the ancient sect

The actual taking of the photograph involved an interruption in the act of reading this book. As for the interruption itself, I do remember that it was the unexpected arrival of Paul Arbez, a friend who documents most of my wok on large-format transparencies. The production of this image then was an 'enfolding’ of this interruption into my passive act of reading and daydreaming so that my absent-mindedness was intersected with another kind of purposive activity: the positioning of the camera, taking light readings, and so on. The technical operation of photography thus functioned as a self-conscious witness to my private act of reading, as well as providing a concrete spatial reference for an abstract conceptual activity, a document of a specific, narrative autobiographical moment, an objec-tive preservation of an abstract instance of time. The photograph was then put into the archives until resurrected five years later.

public. Valverde’s work explores a sculptural particularity which affects architecture and its audiences, as well as the performativity and/or hermeneutics of both. The piece may in fact be an act of defiance against the lack of vision and lack of consideration with regard to spatial events and cultural goods in these volatile times of a crisis of values.

In the modern world, however, we appear to resist such significant integrating imagery, which was more evident perhaps in past cultures, wherein people seem to have regarded the passage of time rather more ambivalently, as being at once related to their personal predicament and to a larger cosmology.

colours. It continued with the support of the Galleria Civica di Arte Contemporanea di Trento (Civic Gallery of Contemporary Art of Trento, Italy), Museion Modern and Contemporary Art Museum of Bolzano (Italy) and Kunstraum of Innsbruck (Austria) with the intervention of Bird Flu at the 4th Berlin Biennale. Bird Flu is a trip into physical and mental state of influences, taking an ironical use of the term influenza as a starting point in suggesting multiple levels of interpretation.
The sculptures are often turned, tilted, built upon and re-fired, investigating the strength required for negotiating the relation between our interior and exterior worlds. Heaving, disrupted, uprooted forms hover in the space between the solid and the fluid, the fissure between order and chaos, of fluidity and brittleness.

Some texts can be scanned normally and read through from beginning to end. Others function as free verse, automatic poetry or fragmented speech. The inclusion mediates between the standard reading of a painting and one where the overall painterly context is in tension with material of a different nature. The use of text as a formal element rather than for the meaning of the words juxtaposed with texts that are pointedly intended to be read and to carry meaning along with the photographic, diagramatic and schematic referents requires another way of 'reading' visual information.

On the one hand, following from Camnitzer, granting the artist a position that precedes language (and, by extension, history), while opening a large space for experimentation, could be seen as a tediously romantic endorsement of the artist as mad genius; unaccountable and unaware of the vocabularies that have consolidated around him or her. But would this not be another way of describing an already-existing hysteria embedded in a field where all legitimating mechanisms are subject to highly contingent and subjective impressions and projections of value and importance? While we could say that a vocabulary exists for linking these together, it still does not manage to form a coherent language of judgment, of totalizing denouncement or terms that could otherwise measure the definitive success or failure of a work of art. This could be the source of a good amount of psychosis, but it would be even more insane to suggest that a central authority /should/ form a central criterion of aesthetic judgment as a template for all. And anyhow, art at its best does not provide answers and solutions; it creates problems. I wondered whether I could devise a system that would turn this on its head. Instead of having a secrecy haven, we could have an openness haven./
Belonging and Anonymity: The May 18 Gwangju Democratisation Movement in 1980 resulted in a massacre of the protestors by the military regime and since 1995, the Gwangju Biennale has been Asia’s oldest and most prestigious biennale of contemporary art. Modern Gwangju has mostly been constructed through definitions that tend to establish specific protagonists and largely operates within the realm of grand narratives. We will look beyond such grand political and social narratives to reveal overlooked histories and traces of the lives of its inhabitants.

L'identité n'est pas donnée une fois pour toute, elle se construit et se transforme tout au long de l'existence. Amin Maalouf, /Les identités meurtrières/

I paint 'with ( ) out ( ) words' and embrace the notion of space between 'printed words', as it Is that space which allow for more to happen. The intent focuses on that felt space where motions take note from a place beyond description.
An art collector, art historian, teacher and book designer, Stéphane Danis is the publisher of Editions S. Danis and /Le muse secret/, producers of limited edition artist’s books and multiples. Represented in numerous private and public collections, Danis’s books have been exhibited in libraries and museums across North America. He has published /Reliqui/ with Carlos Quiroz (1996), /Dix muse secrets/ (1996) and /La Dchirure/ with Jacques Lamoureux (1993), and /Curio/ with Irene Whittome (1994).
These images show the Tibetans' sense of survival that has continued in spite of the past 45 years of Chinese occupation and official genocide. The Tibetans is a testament to a people's strength of character and their love of life in spite of overwhelming odds. The political voice behind these images is the affirmation of human dignity and the condemnation of cultural oppression.
And yet some artists who might appear to be moving back to their mythical home to purify themselves might at the same time be permanently purging themselves of the lure of origin. In the cycles of decomposition and recomposition, others might push instead for the granting of statehood to synthetic subcultural milieux which for some reason attain a legitimate status alongside more historically situated tribes and peoples. A promised land of gamers and alcoholics, for instance. A continent for indebted MFAs, rich in coltan deposits and with its own stock market harvesting bitcoin. Finally, a place gay Bolsheviks can call their own.
L’espace est grand, rectangulaire et parallèle à la rue Ste-Catherine: il serait donc orienté selon un axe est-ouest. En y pénétrant, on en a une vue fragmentaire et l’on doit s’avancer pour découvrir graduellement, à sa droite, le reste de la galerie et ce qui s’y trouve installé. La vue d’ensemble se reconstruit mentalement au fur et à mesure du parcours.
If you have driven through the streets of most suburbs, you have seen the row houses of equivalent design, decoration, and setback. Such standardization seems depressing to you, but the important thing is that it seems even more depressing to the suburbanite. As a consequence, an enormous amount of effort has been spent by suburbanites to make their homes different from those on either side and across the street. The more identical things are, the more he seeks some distinctive touch to symbolize and validate any particular tract house as his house.

Touch me, And I'll - die.
Tarpaulin: as defined by the dictionary is canvas impregnated with tar, much as painting is impregnated with assumptive vocabulary.

Kožarić has always kept the character of his works open. He reworks earlier pieces, reprocesses earlier ideas, and intentionally dates works inaccurately or incorrectly. To do justice to this openness, the exhibition is organized according to thematic connections within his work, rather than to chronology, style, or development.

Samuel Becket.B. Yeats

  cliché, */Being Singular Plural: Moving Images from India/* shows how diverse the country’s art scene really is. ArtMag reports on the show and introduces outstanding contemporary Indian artists.

Initially, we developed a staged fictional format in our images to protect people from being identified by management. However, we soon realized that it allows us to push both the content and form much further. More recently, however, we have also developed a process of visual workshops in which community members collaborate in developing the form of the work and act in the final images.
The end of the Cold War failed to bring about the end of history as the liberal world order, and liberal democracies have failed to reign in the excesses and instabilities of global capitalist markets and to rid the new world order of primitive ideologies and political enmities. The threats to "forms of life," to the will to life, continue to exist. Stateless people and groups are exceptionally vulnerable to "disappearing." There can be no effective movement for collective self-preservation without the proper political determination.

TRAGEDY
Selon les Nations-Unies, la dégradation de l'environnment menace de rendre stérile près du quart des continents. J'ai donc abordé ma plus récente série en ayant pour objectif de mettre en lumière la négligence, l'insouciance, le manque de clairvoyance de certains dirigeants, mais aussi les blessures causées par le déboisement abusif, la culture intensive, le surpâturage, voire l'extrême nécessité de populations pauvres, pour ne nommer que ces quelques abus sur la nature. La désertification étant tout la perte de terre arabe.

On the cover, Gotovac superimposed a shot of himself holding open his trench coat—a glowing five-pointed star cut out of his forehead—over the letters T-O-M. His exposed penis dangles neatly below the Glen Miller T-shirt he is wearing. This Tom character—a cinephile punk—is joined by three other portraits inside the paper: Tom the security agency worker, Tom the pinup, and Tom the superhero. They all pay homage to the absurd adventures of a country facing its brutal fall, while still enjoying the last convulsions of socialism.
In her series of works entitled /Irrintzi/. Repetition (2006-2008), *Itziar Okariz* explores the acoustics particular to a number of different locations, in actions that she performs and records on video. The /irrintzi/ is a system of communication at the limits of language, a traditional Basque call that the artist employs with ambivalence in her actions vis-à-vis the connotations of national identity and specific cultural forms of jubilation and exaltation on special occasions. This is the case of previous works such as /Irrintzi. Repetition 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96 (2006), Irrintzi. Repetition Guggenheim Museum Bilbao (2007) and Irrintzi. Repetition. Bowery, New York/ (2008) where the artist uses this cry as rough material for her performances, firstly removing it from its original context and then confronting it with new referents.
For the past two years I have been developing a photographic portfolio which examines the contexts I find myself in as an artist: the studio, the art school, the museum, the international biennial. I am interested in all the situations in which art is found, both in its production phase and as a finished object.
After 30 years of practice, the only thing I still wish my art to do is this: To project us into this thick Cloud of Unknowing.
Challenging eyes and the serious face expression let perceive the fighter is ready to face the adversity. The Artist rather meant to represent a pragmatic standing-by position suspended between two moods: a concious and cold wait opposed to the passionate momentum towards the action.
In my latest collection of still life imagery, I follow in the footsteps of the great masters of the Baroque period and harness the ambiguous meaning of objects to compose satirical illustrations that not only evoke the fleeting qualities of time and the transience of life in general, but place particular emphasis on the absurdities of our fast-paced modern life. Art is Spiritual
Central to our quest for meaning in death is the the possibility of an afterlife. What happens to us after we die? Do we go somewhere else? Do we retain our identity? Do we become nothingness, disconnected atoms and molecules that will be recombined to become other beings or elements? Do we reincarnate?

Su-Ying Lee purposely seeks to understand this reality. The death of her brother and the pressure of traditional Chinese culture to provide for her aging father instilled her with a great sense of guilt. Her video /Spiritualized/ features images of a decaying fish on a beach, covered in flies. As the camera closes in on the flies, a soothing, guided-relaxation- recording voice accompanied by a Tibetan prayer bell directs the viewer to "relax" and "let go" in order to achieve "mindfulness in sound." The process of bodily degeneration is important to the artist, as she contemplates approaching old age, her own mortality and the deterioration of her own physical body.
Tony Urquhart's first major retrospective was mounted by the London Regional Art Gallery in 1970, subsequent to which he began to serve widely on juries and, along with Chambers, was consulted concerning the establishment of the Canada Council's Art Bank collection. Other retrospective exhibitions were presented at the At Gallery of Kitchener (1978) and the Art Gallery of Windsor (1988), both of which toured extensively from Newfoundland to British Columbia.

This is not anonymous sex. However, the photographs allow the viewer to enter the image and insert their own fantasy. I have deliberately established a female presence but kept the work open to multi-desiring viewers.

/Paysage, etc./ occupies two very precise spaces, the ground and the air, forming a homogeneous whole. Working with second-hand women's clothing in various shades of white that she takes apart and pieces together, Janet Logan suggests fragments of human bodies as she piles them up on the floor, on wooden crates and on an easel like dolls, stuffed animals or cushions. Abstract objects are suspended from the ceiling, juxtaposed next to each other, forming a whole that at first glance gives the impression of lightness and delicacy although some of the more prickly textures, certainly the metal, oppose that which is soft and comforting. A is tension created that, rather that being very menacing, seems to be the result of a certain anxiety. Moreover, this process of exhibition by suspension, amply used in the 20th century, was already highly valued in the 16th century -- for example, in the curio cabinets where one hung the most astonishing objects from the ceiling.

The series Open House extends the No Fixed Address and Paint Palette series into the interior realm, by examining domestic suburban interior spaces. Although each interior differs more radically than the exteriors might suggest, it becomes apparent that the changes made to each space rely heavily on decoration and ornament. Thus all three bodies of work suggest an irony: How is it possible for a person’s sense of autonomy and place to be described through mock-classical imitations, pastiche, paint, or ornaments that are themselves mass-produced, heavily marketed substitutes for true artisan practices?

However, by giving the painted sections a more active part than its previous metaphorical function as the 'ground’ to the 'figurative’ or signifying function of the photograph, I have reconfigured the painted segments to now function as the figure, with the photograph as the ground. Some impli-cations of this inversion will be elaborated upon later in the discussion of the subsequent work, EI Taller. This raises some theoretical questions that have yet to be fully answered. What, for example, are the implications of this for the relative hierarchical relationships between painting and photo-graphy as it has evolved historically? Is this a repositioning in my work of painting as a signifying gest-ralism in itself? Until this point 'gesturalism’ has always been repressed in my work and is, in my opi-nion, the most problematic aspect of painterly technique. In more general terms, does this constitute a fundamental shift in my work? Whatever the case, the 'hermeneutic substance’, the significantly readable aspect of the subject matter given by the photographic element in these works, assumes a new relation to abstraction. Even though the theme of the studio references the production of the work itself, the absence in these works of the human figure, the artist as 'actor’, protagonist, and producer, sublimates the 'figurative’ function of the photograph as a signifying representation to the relatively more dynamic painterly per-formance of the abstract segments. The author as producer here is present not as a self-legitimizing 'hero’, but as an 'absence’ looking back through the 'space of production’, reflecting on work in the process of its self-definition.
The Management
Some of my subject matter is about people's daily routines and a comment on human nature. And since I've always been a fan of mafia films - a new strand of work seems to have emerged depicting a very 'human' and 'school playground' side to mob life.
In order to stabilize power, it is absolutely necessary to keep sex cordoned off and in its place because of how it switches and mutually erases notions of emancipation and enslavement, which is after all why sexual practices and codes can be such a terrifyingly direct line to how deeply emancipation and enslavement have been inscribed into the most minute practices of a person. Just on the level of muscle movements, you can detect an emancipated citizen lapsing into the most severe or infantile brutality, and the most repressed can freely express all the tenderness that is usually systematically foreclosed in every other part of the day or in every other part of the city. Sex is where classes switch roles just for kicks and gender can forget itself. In it, you can only be a conduit for codes of submission and domination that were written into your being at some point by history, ancestry, upbringing, star sign—and even though you can never change the fact that you will always be a macho entitled fuckhead or a generous submissive who stores all that hardship on a remote server, you can rewrite yourself through role play with another person. since sexuality can never be absent from any society, sexuality is always at least latently embedded in any society as the potential for freedom—freedom from prejudices, power, control, and so forth. However, judging by statistical data, the rate of sexual intercourse under socialism may have been even higher than under capitalism.

Kožarić’s /Oblici prostora/ (Shapes of Space) were designed as replicas of urban cavities and voids—negative volumes that were transformed into positive forms. In 1963, Kožarić wrote, "Plaster casts should be made of … the interiors of several important cars, the interior of bed-sitters, trees, the interior of a park, etc., the interiors of all-important cavities in our city." Conversely, the result—largely abstract, rounded shapes—is the sculptural realization of the idea of emptiness.

I don't use photographs as part of the painting process. I feel it is critical to get the details right and record both one's perceptions and misperceptions. The on-site experience allows me to choose which elements to emphasize, where to abstract, and, where to simplify or detail.

*The Guimet Museum *For four years, the Guimet Museum—Europe’s richest collection of Asian arts—now grants a space to contemporary art through partnerships with other institutions or galleries, creating specific events. By displaying contemporary pieces close to ancient artefacts within patrimonial exhibitions or permanent collections, the museum underlines the importance between past and present civilisations from the Extreme-Orient and Occident.

[Taryn Simon provides expansive descriptions as part of many of her works.--eds.]

sound
Of all the structures of contemporary art, the least recognized and documented is the space of the art school studio, where much of contemporary art has its origins. The chaos in the studio reflects a desire for unstructured play that seems to operate as the flipside to what is seen as the regimentation of a non-artistic life. Yet it is only by structuring their "play" to suit the regimentations of the biennale, the gallery system and granting structures that students can hope to make their way. Student detritus reveals how quickly they absorb the zeitgeist of current art production.
In my research with large groups of people, /The Burden Work/ (1993-96) I came to realize the many 'burdens' we carry are both deeply personal and collectively global simultaneously. To create a space of resonance in which cultural burdens, history, memory and other personal baggage can vibrate side by side is to me an opportunity to create a doorway into another realm of thinking about these things, one that is experienced viscerally before it is understood rationally. I want to continue to create work in which the synthesis of these elements happens in the viewer rather than at a distance in the art objects mounted on the walls.

I love living in Toronto where the action is. And, needless to say, I love the north bush and traveling to other countries. But, thanks to the Canada Council, who helped me immeasurably throughout my formative years, it must be said that all my ventures and adventures abroad have consistently reminded me of the beauty and greatness of Canada, my home.

Each project often consists of multiple works, often in a range of different media, grouped around specific themes and meanings. During research and production new areas of interest arise and lead to the next body of work.

Framework 6 assembles different national and urban case studies and theorizes from different angles of Europe how the paradigm of creativity contributes to the instrumental use of creativity and what kind of impact it has on the arts and culture at large. Tim Griffin on the toxic delights of safety orange; Elizabeth Esch on the failed Fordlandia project in Brazil; Lytle Shaw on the unphotographable Ernst Moiré; an interview with Scott Sandage on the cultural history of failure in America; and more Anyone found on the
In the past few years, debates around art education have experienced a gradual, yet determined drift from an interest in open formats and the emancipatory potentials of semi-institutional structures, to discussions of how those educational institutions can be optimized, or even standardized. One can easily dismiss this shift towards pragmatism for reflecting an endemic crisis of the imagination; and it probably does, but it is also a necessarily concrete response to very real threats to art education that have come in the form of severe budget cuts and sweeping measures to bring art production in line with the broader administrative mandates of research universities.

From the catalogue for Rayner's /Retrospective/ at The Robert McLaughlin Gallery, Oshawa, January 10 - February 21, 1979.
By this time I was living at 18 _ St. Mary Street, another old Victorian building split up into apartments, which is now some dull high-rise, and through Ross Mendes I met Al Fleming, a great designer who loved paintings and reminded me that it was possible, even maybe a responsibility, for artists to love all art forms as long as they were excellently executed. When Ross saw I was doing steel sculpture he introduced me to Gerry Gladstone who had also begun to work in steel, and we would talk all night long and longer. We'd have jam sessions. I was playing drum brushes on the back of beer cases, Gladstone was playing flute, Coughtry was singing the blues and Mike Snow was already playing brilliant piano. This music has been more of a social tie than our private art. We always had that in common, the fun, the gatherings; not when we were alone struggling in studios, but when we got together at those great parties: people pounding garbage cans (they were metal in those days) and singing the blues.
In the gun culture of the United States, firearms are seen as an aid to preserving life. Firearms protect people from their enemies. They are a form of self- defense and a natural right of every individual. This emphasis on self-preservation creates a state of fearful paranoia, which in turn leads to violence.
This open arrangement of the galleries accommodates modern contemporary art with its rejection of chronological series. It allows for exhibitions that highlight the complexity of the creative approaches that coexist at any point in time. The same applies to the museum in Frankfurt, which also features very different rooms: galleries with skylights or sidelights, ones that are dark, as well as round and angular rooms. It lets each work of art find its place and gives the visitor the freedom to devise his or her own way through the exhibition. I also think a museum is not an erratic block; it’s a building for the community to take possession of.   

The exhibition features two works, which have not been seen in public previously, and were once in the collection of the author Graham Greene. /A Horseman Enters a Town at Night/, 1948, is a particularly significant work. Executed in dark paint, with flashes of vermillion and cadmium yellow, this work is considered to be one of Yeats’ masterpieces and The Model is delighted to premiere its showing in this exhibition.

Jalal Toufic is a thinker whose influence in the Beirut artistic community over the past two decades has been immense—notwithstanding that, as he put it, many, if not all of his books, most of which were published by Forthcoming Books, "continue to be forthcoming even after their publication." In relation to one of these books, he wondered: "Does not a book titled /Forthcoming/ suggest, ostensibly paradoxically, a second edition?" Here’s the revised edition of/Forthcoming/, a book first published nearly a decade and a half ago by Atelos press.
Further mocking the structure of a private corporation, Cuevas rented an office on the 14th floor of the tallest skyscraper in Mexico City. From this local 1950s modernist icon, Cuevas designed a website that is part of the "irational.org" group, which also has contributors in England and Spain, (33) and set out to establish a whole range of products and services to be given away for free on request and with no obligation to reciprocate. MVC’s catalogue is a small compilation of contemporary dreams and antidotes to frustration. Cuevas leaves random "magic" seeds (very much in the tradition of Ben Vautier’s unlabelled cans of "mystery food") next to ATMs, suggesting to the customer an agrarian turn to make of the former social structure of political clientelism and the untenable dreams of world-class development. Despite its mocking of corporate culture, and the radical and anarchist leanings of its creator, one can credit MVC with having replicated the unconscious structure of this fake version of the welfare state. Cuevas’s work, in that sense, is a timely counter monument for a cunning postrevolutionary populist regime that seems on the way to vanishing entirely, eroded by the democratic struggles of its population and the unstoppable advance of global capitalism. Short-termism reigns. Today’s decisions lack a future horizon. A constant flood of snapshots feeds the fear of missing out. A never-ending flood of new technologies promises to solve all our problems—until the next revelation of the impossibility of tackling deep-seated conflicts through technological management. 

It asks about oral histories, cracks in memories, abandoned visions and desolated heroes. Dockwatchers addresses the person, the individual, caught up in political and historical processes, whose personal memory is inscribed in collective experiences, the official representations of history and various forms of commemoration and mythologisation.If I Cant Dance is not trying to sum up a contemporary feminist art or to collate an aesthetic for feminism, but rather to explore how feminist thinking on all levels (social, artistic, political, theoretical, ideological or structural) may be important in our cultural life. There is currently a rich artistic discourse, which taps into this legacy and manifests itself in the materiality and language of visual art, but also interrogates how artists choose to perform themselves and their work within the dominant visual economy. The project aims to explore these tendencies as inquisitively and openly as possible.

My full time studio practice includes clay sculpture and printmaking. The work derives from interest in the tension of strength against fragility and as I push the work towards the edge of physical collapse, this theme becomes more potent. The work is hand-built and sculptural in nature. The use of light interplay provides a perceived fragility explored through stacking and channeling of hand-built clay platelets.

*_Audra Simpson, Elizabeth A. Povinelli, and Liza Johnson—_*_*Holding Up the World, Part IV: After a Screening of When the Dogs Talked at Columbia University*_ <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/holding-up-the-world-part-iv-after-a-screening-of-when-the-dogs-talked-at-columbia-university-audra-simpson-elizabeth-povinelli-and-liza-johnson-in-conversation/> I’m suspicious of certain new and powerful models of requiring documentaries to have "measurable impact." I think it’s our job as artists and intellectuals to be out in front of things, like canaries in mineshafts, and to be looking for things which are there to be sensed, like a tingling and hopefully collective Spidey-sense, but which might not yet be there to be measured. Something more like "structures of feeling," or things that are in the air, which might have some other kind of impact, some immeasurable impact.
/*Reality is complex */ Cultures like the San Bushmen of the Kalahari or the Australian Aborigines have no problem reconciling alternative versions of reality. They see experiential reality as part of an overall Dreamtime or Spirit-world. One of the features of this way of thinking is to see the animals and environment as part of the self and vice versa.
David Bolduc was our leading maker of poetic, lyrical colour abstract paintings and the inheritor of the mantle of modernism within the legacy of Jack Bush and Gershon Iskowitz. Bolduc, well-read and widely traveled, accumulated the lessons learned from a lifetime spent exploring the pleasures of the rich visual history of civilization. His works paid homage to his admiration for an inclusive array of places and traditions. His peripatetic wanderings took him to Paris, Spain, North Africa, Mexico, Turkey and the Middle East, China as well as clear across Canada. His art draws upon and celebrates our vibrant collective world artistic heritage: Persian miniatures, Oriental rugs African art, Asian calligraphy and the splendours of the inventive progressive art of the modern age.
Using a provocative character, the Artist represents an "alternative femininity" with a trasgressive approach; going through a different sexual identity the Artist intends to represent femininity as a human attitude rather than a straight sexual orientation.

These paintings are about my childhood and that adult yearning to taste the sweet gummy bears of nostalgia for a time that no longer exists. These paintings are about the past, smeared with a patina of the present, trying to recreate that same feeling of promise for a utopian future.
Blue for clarity (and yet it is almost completely opaque…) circuitry web tangle branch system; leave them all behind for heaven
Painting is my subject and all subsequent readings (including my own) are subjective and incidental. The titles offer an entry, but come after the act; that is, they are suggested in the looking and reflect an observation of the process followed, as well as the influence of books, music, people, the natural world and other art that may be attracting my attention at a given time.

Luckily, this Magnetawan paradise is still available to me, and each spring I disappear into it, wanting to be swallowed up by its dense greenery and crashing rapids, to feel the look of it again. It has become a touchstone, a /tool/ by which, in my travels elsewhere, I am able to measure and evaluate. I know the Mediterranean light in comparison to the Magnetawan light. The impenetrable Pre-Cambrian rock underfoot allows me a deeper insight into the nature of the mountains of Guatemala and the Andes of Peru. I have a greater sense of the tropical vegetation of India and Nepal because of my familiarity with the birch bark and trillium of Ontario.

My practice is an excavation of the detritus of everyday life. I borrow methodology from archaeology, anthropology, and natural history. Through an activity parallel to that of the museum, I collect, catalogue, and (re)present objects. I seek relationships between nature and culture, creation and production, what is lost and what is found. 'museum piece’ combines several bodies of work in an on-going catalogue which samples the nature in our culture and the culture in our nature.

Platinum prints are not only the most permanent and stable of any medium on paper, they are perhaps the most exquisite as well. Nothing else looks like a platinum image. No other photographic process can achieve the ethereal luminosity and three dimensional appearance of the platinum photograph. Platinum is one of the most inert elements know to man, even more stable than gold. A platinum print is in fact as permanent as the paper it is printed on.
For the past three years, Katja Jacobs has been exploring images and memories from her past, using them as a point of departure for what I regard as some of her most provocative and engaging work to date. The project began as a series works on paper, but now includes a number canvases. Jacobs incorporates specific images of places and people crucial to her history, transforming them and often concealing them with layers of "text" that blur the distinction between drawing and writing. At times, we can read phrases, words, fragments of sentences, while at others, known alphabets and language dissolve into graphic abstraction. The series employs literal collage, as well as visual palimpsest, with layers often stitched together to create yet another kind of intensely physical "drawing." This powerful physically is further expressed by the rich variety of materials, from graphite and paper to cloth and wax, used to suggest surfaces transformed by the passage of time.

My work, in 3D as well as in painting, originates from the very idea that ultimate knowledge could very well be an erosion instead of an accumulation. The title of one of my pieces is " All Ideas Look Alike". Contemporary art seems to have forgotten that there is an exterior to the intellect. I want to examine thinking, not only "What" we think, but "That" we think.
When ideas thumble from our mouth, the better explained, the easier to understand.

and also the weird stuff. Sex as the symbolic drainage area for desires that exceed and escape the society, but also as the visceral pelvic thrust behind those desires that glue the whole contraption together when it is actually hopelessly falling apart. Because we all know the fear of sex, and most of us have spent too much time close to a military or imperial or populist regime bent on regulating or functionalizing it. Keep it minimal, because this kind of intimacy mashes subject and object relations together in a way that makes governance confusing if not impossible.
The first half of the exhibition presents artists who use aspects of diary as the conceptual foundation of their work. Many of these artworks start with an extremely personal experience or relationship and distance themselves through a project-oriented approach. For example, Matt Keegans abstracted photographic installations always start from a personal perspective, often using his boyfriend or his father as his subject. Jennifer Cohen also utilizes her own history, as a professional ballerina, to inform her sculptures that explore the quasi-cultural history of the ballet. In both cases, the use of memoir becomes a necessary springboard for larger conceptual structures; while other works in the exhibition memoir remains intact.installation of drawings is the fodder for her powerful lecture performances that combine the aspect of diary as travel log. In it she tells a tale of grief set within the shifting and often violent landscape that surrounds her. /How I Finally Accepted Fate/ celebrates artworks whose fictional scenarios and personal memoirs do not quite transcend the political, but rather, hover as artifacts of change.

I think now I’ve forgotten how to think. I feel like a hollowed out libidinous shell.

Interior images are abstracted using decorative textures. Using my personal space I drew on raw canvas with charcoal and paint and glazing medium. These represent a happy period and a love of architectural and interior design.

*_Andreas Siekmann and Alice Cresicher—How to Wear a Scissor-Wielding Trifecta on a T-Shirt_* The photo below shows Harun wearing the scissor-wielding trifecta on a T-shirt, after the Goethe Institute in Lisbon refused to print the icon on their press release.
In video I am interested in absurd juxtapositions in popular and official American culture such as Charlton Hestons' appointment as President and spokesperson of the National Rifle Association; the language of U.S. Alien documentation; and my physical resemblance to a younger Meryl Streep. I am becoming increasingly interested in the cult of celebrity, and the desire that propels extreme fandom. My latest work is an ongoing conceptual project of which the object of my affection, actor Billy Bob Thornton, is the subject.

The sublime rectification of an original Brueghel presents another set of aesthetic and cultural problems. A work that speaks to the legacy of an iconoclastic Dadaist past, the Chapman Brothers parasitic approach to making art, such as their interventions with Goya, Hogarth and more From beginning to end, the notion of animism provides an allegorical relationship to that of the human condition. Irvine leads us on an experiential journey without dictating a position, letting the scenes interweave with the logic of our journey through the new exhibition spaces of SMART Project Space.
The "Itjanayo" (Korean "Itjanayo," meaning "well," "um," "see," or "by the way") project by architect and artist Soo-in Yang will be set in the Cheonggyecheon Plaza, an old-new space that has been reinvented and renewed in many iterations much like Seoul itself. Installed in front of Claes Oldenburg’s /Spring, Itjanayo/ is a box of mirrors seen from the outside, but becomes a viewing and recording box from the inside, when people enter into the box and start to state their opinions. Throughout history, a plaza has been a place for airing statements of opinion, historical statements are limited by time and forgetfulness, but the statements inside /Itjanayo/ are recorded and replayed for others to hear. Others who subsequently enter the box can add responses to the earlier statements as though they were adding online comments.

'Wilf – a Life in Pictures’ is a fictional biography of an English editorial cartoonist. Wilf’s career began in the early ’60s and lasted through to his early retirement in the ’90s. Throughout his working life he maintained friendships with a group of fellow cartoonists. Through this invention 'Wilf’ examine how codes of illustration and visual styles change over time and chart the development of a mass graphic language – showing how it felt, as well as how it looks at certain moments in time and the thoughts of the group of cartoonists on their personal and professional relationships over the period.
An extensive programme of events will be staged throughout the duration of Richards’ exhibition at Chisenhale Gallery, including a new collaboration with Haroon Mirza and Ed Atkins, contextual talks and two screenings, one of which will feature a compilation of video material woven together by Richards.

The presented artworks will re-read Asian tradition with its continual fascination for the sacred, the absolute, philosophies and journeys. These meditative itineraries take place essentially in the museum’s Japanese collections, offering three distinct orientations: gesture and calligraphy, architecture and volumes, rituals and memory.

/Mythes ou realites/*
When I paint a large oil version of a smaller field sketch, the work goes through another level of transformation. Often, the finished work seems more real or believable than the former.
I went to the Varley Museum to see an exhibition of work by the Painters Eleven.

I make work about how messages are communicated and received. These are times of information overload, and being able to respond to what is important becomes increasingly difficult.

/How do you generate a sense of responsibility? What is the response today to a request that we are responsible towards another or towards their different world-view? How could we act differently in the roles of producers and/or consumers of culture? What are the ways of playing a more active role in this process?/
Each viewer, of course, brings to the work his or her own set of life experiences from which to access it. None of the works are totally readable -- they are open observations rather than closed statements. I hope that they continue to reveal new levels of meaning as new experiences are brought to them.

In 1992 I co-founded Dasart, an artist's collective dedicated to socialist installations. We suppressed individual identities, mounting several national and international traveling exhibitions. 'Dasart/Victoria' installation contrasted 19th Century optimism with the late 20th Century industrial age detritus. We used old colonial maps, coal, concrete, iron and rubber with motors, sound and electricity to create a frenetic environment, contrasted with serene Victorian paintings.

inspiration
The first exhibition I had was in the upstairs lobby of the now-defunct Odeon Toronto movie house at College and Yonge. About this time, I met Dennis Burton and because of his studies at the Ontario College of Art I became friends with a variety of young artists including Robert Markle, Rick Gorman, Marlene Markle and Larisa Pavelchenko who were all in the same year at the college. I was fascinated by children's art, certainly a different world of vision than that studied at O.C.A., and the art of Paul Klee. Klee and Ben Shahn, my other influence then, had something in common in a graphic sense. Shahn was another artist tempting to imitate, especially as I had had training in the graphic arts. Once you fell in love with Ben Shahn's work you just had to follow his lines. Half the people I knew at that time were doing Ben Shahn. When I met Graham Coughtry a couple of years later he was a Ben Shahn expert. When I met him I asked him, 'What do you think of Paul Klee?' He said, 'See that guy over there, he's a Paul Klee expert, go and talk to him.' The person he was speaking of was Mike Snow, who was influenced in his early work by Klee. By this time, 1955-56, Burton, Robert Smith and I shared the upstairs loft in an old Victorian house called the Villa Crispin. We talked incessantly about art, music, and women. One thing that brought Burton and I together as close friends is that we were both jazz fanatics. We also had a mutual interest in classically based music, and the stirrings of a form called electronic music. Anything that was new, or unfamiliar, would be debated. It was during this time that I learned a great deal about historically traditional art through self-imposed study. I used to take what we called 'The Ontario College of Art Lessons,' from Dennis Burton; that is, the exercises he received as homework from teachers such as Fred Hagan. I'd never heard of things like flattened perspective before. Burton literally taught me. I'd ask him and he's explain it. Also I had the advantage of seeing his expert examples. He was a fantastic student. He won several prizes at the school. Despite some tough arguments there was never any animosity. We were, however, branching away from one another, as our individual styles began to develop, slowly, surely. I went through a period of Rico Le Brun influence that came through Dennis. I found out later that Robert Hedrick (whom I hadn't yet met) had studied with Le Brun in Mexico. Dennis studied with him in California. The facts leave a web that would make a marvelous graph if someone could ever put it together. About that time Painters Eleven mounted a major show at Hart House. Burton and I attended enthusiastically. What knocked me out were Bill Ronald's paintings. There were two or three of them - they burned into my brain. I didn't like Jack Bush's paintings then; they seemed awkward. The Tom Hodgson's were impressive, but to a lesser degree. I couldn't understand the work of Hortense Gordon but Alexandra Luke's work evoked a certain tingle.

Boxes separated by an arched doorway

*_Constanze Ruhm—Attachment_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/attachment/> A simple lesson I learned from Harun Farocki: on set, you can clap the clapboard quietly too.

My last African installation, 'Cannibal Communicator: The Congo Holocaust', was a motorized mouthpart sculpture with audio relating the history of the Congo from when HM Stanley explored the Congo River to the excesses of King Leopold who was extracting wild rubber as a tax. A cavernous ribcage supports light-boxes with images taken by the missionaries at the time of the atrocities committed by Leopold's Cannibal army. The soundtrack uses a confessional aesthetic.
After a period of turmoil and loss in my life I returned to painting using free association starting with a single mark. Fresh and fun, these images are born directly from the subconscious mind. There is also one mono print which also explores spontaneity.

Canada
SPECIAL: VOICE Everywhere in the visual art world, voices are rising. In the beginning they spoke about art, today they speak as art. What is the meaning of this shift away from the visual?

Walldrawing approaches the wall as collective space. Here we have variants on a site-specific approach going back to such early or basic forms of drawing as cave art and graffiti.
–A *ball-making workshop*, in which participants will learn how to make balls according to pre-industrial methods, utilizing old sheets, liquid latex, vinegar, medical tape, punctured bicycle inner tubes, packing materials, rubber bands, wine corks, bits of string, and other unlikely stuff. Materials will be provided, but participants are also welcome to bring old t-shirts, rubber doodads, yarn, and socks missing their mates.

It would therefore seem that the realization of the aesthetic image or whatness of things, outside and to one side of the linear progress of time, is an essential characteristic of the art of painting and, I imagine, of art generally.
I feel that representational painting has much yet to offer -- if not in terms of how we paint then certainly in terms of why we paint.

In The Trip Here and Back, Plotek wrenches a vertiginous dream image of Italy out of a loose structure of dully glowing planes. Evocative shapes briefly pull free and then subside. A tall, slender tower turns a dark, luminous expanse into sky, arcades evoke the sheltered streets of Bologna, and something vaguely figurelike lurks in a corner, yet the painting remains essentially abstract. Plotek’s approach is a high-risk proposition, but when he succeeds-as he often does-this artist achieves resonant, disquieting images that both demand and reward sustained attention.
*Jon Rich; The Blood of the Victim: Revolution in Syria and the Birth of the Image-Event* <http://e-flux.com/journal/view/241>

Evans achieves the daring consensus of theory and image, visual thrust and integrity of conception that has always characterized the best art of this kind.

As the distinction between commerce and leisure is increasingly blurred, public space has morphed into a structure that is semi-private, semi-governmental and facilitates both commerce and entertainment. This panel considers how sustainable designwith its emphasis on energy conservation, efficiency, environmentally reflexive material specification etc. has been deployed in contemporary public space through developers initiatives and government subsidies, and to what ends.

*_Armin Linke—In His Reading Chair_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/in-his-reading-chair/>

If you can’t see anything, you still see something  . . .  impenetrable fog, heavy clouds, whirled up dust – white noise as an aesthetic and visual phenomena, examined and archived through a broad collection of found images. The Histrionic’s line-up of vocals, guitar, bass and drums is modeled on the Australian 'cover band’ stereotype and sets out to demonstrate how second-hand mediation of international art in Australia can be a productive experience. For this CD, the Histrionics have grafted new lyrics onto faithful renditions of familiar rock/pop classics. Part critical, part ironic, these texts examine serious theoretical issues gripping the visual art world and field of culture at large. These upbeat pop renderings wade through murky political waters, dripping in controversy, innuendo and rumor. Florian Pumhosl refers to moments of early abstract and documentary image production. He not only transfers their technical and aesthetic aspects into the 21st century, but also transmits the contents of manifestos which came up together with the production of a modern picture language. Abstract films mark an important point within his exhibition. Like no other work of art they give proof of the fundamentally changed concept of the single image and the reproduction of reality.

At the end of 1959, Kožarić spent six months in Paris, where he created the sculpture /Unutarnje oči /(Inner Eyes, 1959/60), an oval face out of which two rods reach toward the viewer like eyes. This sculpture introduced the artist’s increasing preoccupation with negative volume and an inward directed view. 
*_James Benning—FAROCKI_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/farocki/> Harun Farocki rest in the peace you were so fighting for.

Kassay’s work is based on a minimalist /praxis/ where the industrial process for the production of the art-piece subtracts the quality value of the artefact to replace it with the value of objectuality, turning it into something of interchangeable quality.
The exhibition features a suite of videos collaged from a collection of found audiovisual footage as well as material recently filmed by Richards. Working primarily between moving image, sound and sculpture, Richards often merges these forms within individual works to interrogate the experience of what it is to view and be viewed. This is placed in parallel with his interest in the cultural and emotional resonance of the vernacular visual content he chooses to manipulate, taken from a range of sources such as viral web video footage, mainstream cinema, experimental music and intimate video portraits of friends. Richards often integrates collaborative strategies into his work, with some of the material used in this exhibition gathered by Richards in exchange with New York based artist Steve Reinke during their residency at The Experimental Television Center (Owego, USA), whilst his events programme also includes a number of external artistic voices.

A reaction to the many associations made by those representing the 'art-world'. Levy attempts to render his work distinctive or devoid of art-historical reference-points. A purist in his approach to art-making, he reduces his sculpture to an elemental form; a derivation from a complex image to a near-skeletal remnant. Linda Genereux commented on Levy's ability to remove himself from art-historical associations while upholding the ability to provoke a variety of appropriations and interpretations by stating that, "Evan walks on both sides of the fence, disenfranchising the power of formalist abstraction while embracing the ability to proliferate a multiplicity of suggestions rather than one specific meaning." While Levy draws influence from externals, he states that his work is also prompted by strong internal forces: "images come in flashes, but capturing them requires effort and pondering - a subconscious process."

*Love is in this sense not an elevated romantic phenomenon but the economization of empathy. Love is immaterial capital in the absolute in a sphere of value relations where capital and labor are no longer the main operators or arbiters of value. As unfixed capital summons higher and higher symbolic registers into the arena of exchange, its increasing abstraction puts it constantly on the prowl for a lower base to peg value to.

//But thrown upon this filthy modern tide
The change has created the need for expanded expression Where will it lead?
Some seventeen years ago I was still painting the torso as an image of the human presence, when I stumbled into what I call a blind year--a year in which I had no luck, in which no image emerged. At the end of that year I destroyed forty-three bad paintings. As you can imagine, I was by then in a bad way myself, when my wife Anne Madden--herself a painter--brought me to Paris as to a place of discovery. And there indeed I did discover at the Musée de l’Homme, the Polynesian image of the human head, which like the Celtic image which I discovered the following year, represented for me--as perhaps for these two widely different cultures--the mysterious box which contains the spirit: the outer reality of the invisible interior world of consciousness.
Ernestine Tahedl was born and educated in Austria and received a Master's Degree in graphite art from the Vienna Academy of Applied Arts. Following graduation in 1961, she collaborated with her father, Professor Heinrich Tahedl, in the design and execution of stained glass commissions until she immigrated to Canada in 1963. Her studio is in King City, Ontario. Her work is represented in public, corporate and private collections and galleries in Canada, the United States, France, Switzerland, Austria, and Japan. Her awards include the Graduation Prize of the Austrian Government, 1961; the Bronze Medal of the Vienna International Exhibition of Paintings, 1963; The Allied Arts Medal of the Royal Architectural Institute of Canada; 1966; and a purchase award, Concourse Artistique du Quebec, 1966. In 1967, she received a Canada Council Arts Award. She was elected a member of the Royal Canadian Academy of Arts in 1977 and the Ontario Society of Artists in 1984 and is a member of the Executive of the Arts foundation of Greater Toronto. She received the Governor General's Canada 125th Anniversary Medal in 1993.
In these new paintings I borrow shapes from my environment and displace them. The shapes in turn have a presence all their own. More of a physical than an imaginary reference.

Last year I made a series of thirty-two drawings called /Notations/ that is an investigation of my levels of consciousness in the process of drawing. My objective was twofold: to explore the psychology of consciousness in drawing and to investigate contemporary print technologies by transforming the drawings into digital prints.
As soon as you start looking around, you see ruins everywhere.
Mes objets de création peuvent être considérés comme fossiles. C'est en peignant que le processus-même de création devient mon passage vers mes souvenances les plus profondes. Recouvrir la surface lisse d'une toile de confettis peints me semble tout à fait logique pour le genre de témoignage que je fais. Chaque tache de peinture confirme ma présence dans le temps. J'estime que la couleur est subjective et qu'elle peut être appliquée au hasard. J'enterre mes images des couches de peinture. Mes tableaux référent à la qualité granuleuse d'images médiatisées. L'interface numérique et le réseau ont influencé ma perception. Je considère mes images sans limites, ni bords, ni pourtour.
*Inhumanism is exactly the activation of the revisionary program of reason against the self-portrait of humanity. Once the structure and the function of commitment are genuinely understood, we see that a commitment works its way back from the future, from the collateral commitments of one’s current commitment, like a corrosive revisionary acid that rushes backward in time. By eroding the anchoring link between present commitments and their past, and by seeing present commitments from the perspective of their ramifications, revision forces the updating of present commitments in a cascading fashion that spreads globally over the entire system.

In essence my goal is to make works that simply dissolve the line between emotion and intellection, between art and nature, and transcend to a state of being, of pure existence for its own sake; for its own beauty and pain; for its own vulnerability and timeless qualities. My aim, my desire, is to create paintings that reflect both on history and on the immediacy of today through subtle and abrupt changes that reveal the dichotomy of what is presented and what is understood.

Every year, the exhibition calendar of the Botín Foundation opens with this joint exhibition, where the use by the artists of these nine months of intense creativity is assessed, showcasing a faithful view of their latest artistic proposals. A diversity of origins, work places, techniques, and concerns come together at the youngest and freshest offering displayed in the exhibition halls of the Botín Foundation. 
My paintings begin from the black and white photographs I take of the sterile interiors of such seemingly public spaces as the lobbies' of multinational corporations or the underground passageways that control the flow of people. As a woman, my relation to public space has always been problematised by gender and power relations. The photographs I take in this performative aspect of my process are psychological impressions, located everywhere yet nowhere, rather than an attempt at literal documentation. Both the photographs and the paintings that evolve from them are visualizations of feminist geography.

His distortion and extension of the iconography of traditional carpets is a gesture symbolic of the destruction of cultural traditions in favor of progress and modernity. His understanding of the woven medium is evident, and allows him to skillfully manipulate traditional techniques and forms in carpets, sculptures and large-scale installations.

Function Drawing is an organic scan of the underworld. Drawing is the first place amorphous inklings congeal into objective form. Drawing mediates between the invisible interior world and the mechanistic physical perception of itself. Between Knowing and Seeing.
My work is a means of creating connections between political or social issues and the viewer. I am interested in the evocative potential of the narrative aspects of an issue and in opportunities to transform. My subject matter is often rooted in the specific concerns of the communities I live in. In the past I have utilized an analytical presentation of the facts. /Within Between/ (1988) explored the immigrant's state of living between countries. /But, what does feminism mean to us now?/ (1991-92) investigated feminism's status at a specific moment in time for a given community. /America Searches for Content: the L.A. Times Screen/ (1991) revealed the narrative structures underlying our reading of the local daily news, and /Scenic Sites/ (1996-97) examined the unacknowledged injustice of WW1 Canadian internment camps. In each of these works it was my intention to make the invisible narrative facts visible using diverse media: printmaking, bookworks, billboards, performance, community-interactive installations. My current work is based primarily in multimedia installation art and remains research-based, experiential and community-oriented. /Spinning on Uncertain Ground/ (2000) used a town in the Central Valley as a microcosm of the world, exploring the invisible forces of time and place that shape our individual and collective realities. A new focus for me in this work now is in creating /spaces for environments/ in which the viewer is aware of his or her own sensory responses to the issues, approaching these from the intuitive knowledge of the body rather than from the rational.

We live in a society that is structured and regulated by a ësymbolí of time. We have come to accept this symbol as a valid and real expression of what time is. However, this acceptance has been at the expense of our intuitive and subjective feelings about time.
However, at the heart of all discussions on arts funding, whether it comes from Hanoi or Hollywood, is the reality that the ever-growing art world navigates the same choppy financial waters. Let’s hope that artists, curators and patrons—whether they are heading for Venice or working in their studios in Karachi and Korea—remain undeterred by such challenges.

Artist’s page at DIAMy artwork takes a critical view of social, political and cultural issues. In my work, I deconstruct the American dream, fairy tales, nursery rhymes, and lullabies that are part of our childhood and adult culture. Having engaged subjects as diverse as the civil rights movement, southern rock music and modernist architecture, my work reproduces familiar visual signs, arranging them into new conceptually layered pieces.

These pieces have been developed using computer programs, which enable the artist to manipulate and re-contextualize images from nature. The original images of seedpods, fungus, flowerheads, were transformed and then made in black and colorless materials such as casting resin, vinyl, and fiberglass. Although the works begin with forms from nature, because of computer manipulation of the original images and the use of highly processed materials, these become strange hybrids, artificial forms which retain vestiges of their origin in nature.

The balance of the series of etchings points to the ideological productions supporting war efforts. The series is divided into various groupings beginning with: (a) diverse collections of soldiers and officers; (b) monarchs and political leaders; (c) avant-garde artists and organizations; (d) future leaders; (e) thematic groupings of war propaganda from opposing powers.

The result is an invasion that disturbs the Western notion of transcendental spatiality defined by a negation of chaos, of the living and the contamination of the world. If this bricolage contains a map of the world excluded by religious artifice, it is because it resists all representation and metaphor, in other words, any device that understands "meaning" as a rejection of immanence. One on hand, the project is the result of a process of research into the concrete: the inventory Durham gathered throughout the period of one month in the city of Murcia and its surrounding area, excavating in its industrial archaeology and the layers of culture and violence that compose it, and establishing an ongoing conversation with its inhabitants. The driving idea is in fact to bring to the surface "everything" excluded from the temple, not only in the accumulated mass of deposits, but also because each and every thing introduced into the church brings with it all that is associated with it, that substitutes for it and that involves it through proximity and contact. Technically speaking, we could say that Jimmie Durham’s installation is a huge metonymic banquet.

Montage, Metamorphosis, Masks: On the occasion of *Wangechi Mutu’s* exhibition /My Dirty Little Heaven/, which Mutu conceived as Deutsche Bank’s first 'Artist of the Year’ at Deutsche Guggenheim, ArtMag presents international artistic positions that question identities and construct them in new ways.

Paint Palettes further explores the notion of the decorative, by parodying ordinary household paint colours and their exotic, grandiose paint names. Each piece is presented as an oversize paint sampler, depicting 65 identical garage doors sporting a variety of paint shades. The differences between shades is subtle, and at times hardly noticeable, yet the paint names differ radically, intimating that garage door paint can reflect a great deal about the lives of the home owners.

In 1956 the movie Lust for Life with Anthony Quinn and Kirk Douglas came out. Moulin Rouge had appeared before it in 1952. This had to be it. If you're a commercial artist you've got deadlines; it was the day of the grey flannel suit. I was still working at commercial art, doing more design, layout, lettering, developing a cartoon style for TV animation. But I realized that I wanted to do more insane things than applied art allowed. I'd never really got along with the bosses. I never really liked getting up early in the morning. I never liked deadlines. So I began the syndrome of painting into the early morning hours. Because of Life magazine Bernard Buffet was a hit. It was easy to emulate that stuff.
It was in the drypoint, /Flowers From J/, that the idea of an exhibition based on flowers and gardens had its inception. The print was originally a spontaneous response to a bunch of flowers sent by a family member, but the possibility of colour variations intrigued me, so I photographed them for later reference. /Red & White/ and /The Copper Wall/ are two of these variations. The oil painting, /Afternoon Flowers/ is another view of this subject.

Absent the awareness of the different levels of analysis at work in political economy, "capitalism" inevitably elevates distinct and conflicting relations within and between the modes of consumption, circulation, production, and distribution, confusing them with an overwhelming para-natural force: the creation of surplus value, or what I have called "alchemy." The result is that, in one way or another, every "capitalism" is always already a spiritualism, a mystification that places the actual levers of collective emancipation out of reach.
Since 1998 my artwork has encompassed themes of sameness and lack of autonomy in consumer culture, typically viewed metaphorically through the subdivision vernacular.
—Tom Holert, Julieta Aranda, Brian Kuan Wood, Anton Vidokle
In performance, I am interested in engaging with audiences as a means of orchestrating everyday activities away from their usual context, where audiences are made up of willing participants who are not necessarily expecting art. With a base largely made up of strangers I have shampooed hair in a salon, offered free advice, played games on the sidewalk, transformed borrowed clothing, sewed protective messages into people's clothing seams, brought plants into homes, and borrowed favourite objects for a month.

Knitting is my key to the secret garden, my way down the rabbit hole, my looking glass.

Through representations of Hades and Valhalla, reincarnation, heaven, hell and purgatory, and in the rituals associated with mourning and loss, we use the vehicle of the arts to explore the undiscovered realm of death. From tribal burial rites to the infernal world of Dante; from the phantasmagoric creations of Henry Fuseli to Ingmar Bergman’s metaphysical cinema; from the musings of turn-of-the-century spiritualists to William Blake’s mysticism and the negations of materialist philosophers, the concept of death has played an integral role in the shaping of our identity as a people. As John Alan Schwartz, the writer-director of /Faces of Death /(an explicit cult film depicting various ways to die) puts it: "The only way to understand death and dying and the afterlife is to look at death right in the face."  Although /Faces of Death/ is widely reputed to be more artifice than fact, Schwartz’s statement, nonetheless, touches on an important point: Try as we might, we cannot hide from death. The artists in this exhibition have not  only had the courage to find meaning in death through their work; they have been brave, or, perhaps, simply curious enough to look at death in the face . . .  before it looks in theirs.

The central aim of my art practice is to demystify established cultural constructs by involving the viewer in the humorous debunking of idealized images, concepts and paradigms. I collect images from films, television programs, literature and popular music and transpose these images within a performance art setting, or distill them into installations wherein these components are manipulated, juxtaposed, contrasted and collided against each other, thereby eliciting a shift in perception and understanding.
His extraordinary oeuvre stands out for its diversity and individuality: It embraces performance, film, recording, painting, visually-presented aphorisms and texts. For his critical exploration of the images of Western culture conveyed by the media he drew on techniques and images from the culture industry and advertising. For documenta 7 Goldstein wrote an aphoristic essay for the catalog, which begins with the assertion that "media is sensational". This sentiment runs like a red thread through his work and is specifically a leitmotif of his paintings. In the 1980s Goldstein was considered one of the most promising artists of the Post-Pop Art movement alongside Richard Prince, Sherrie Levine, Robert Longo and David Salle. Working in New York from the 1950s until his death in 1989, Smith unequivocally resisted and upturned accepted conventions, whether artistic, moral or legal. Irreverent in tone and delirious in effect, Smith’s films, such as the notorious /Flaming Creatures/ (1963), are both wildly camp and subtly polemical. Smith is best known for his contributions to underground cinema but his influence extends across performance art, photography and experimental theatre.
Marina Warner explores *Maya Derens* oeuvre and examines how she managed the profound affinity between the material properties of film and inner states of mind.
Les images que l'artiste utilise sont souvent traitées et transformées par l'usage d'ordinateurs, de photocopieurs couleur et d'autres techniques photo-mécaniques. Elles sont éditées, altérées, déformées ou décolorées avant d'être combinées dans les œuvres avec des éléments de dessin, de peinture et d'autres techniques.
Thirteen internationally renowned artists have travelled to the countryside to find inspiration as they remember their childhood and reflect on the nature of being a child today. They have created their works specifically for Gross Leuthen Castle, which during and after the Second World War served as an orphanage and has thus for over a half century been witness to hundreds of experiences, childrens dreams and childrens fates. Very different from one another, the rooms of the castle mirror the conglomerate of styles that characterise the whole structure. Their spellbinding diversity has served both as a challenge and inspiration to the participating artists.
The movement of ambient colours and changing light subtly and continuously alter the appearance of the works throughout the day. The wooden structure releases the canvases from their status as single units, combining them into a larger composite installation that functions as both architectural support and environment.
Recently I have been re-investigating the notion of illusion in painting. In mathematics it would be referred to as the �Z' axis (if X is width and Y is height then Z is depth, the diagonal). Having painted without referential images for a number of years now, I have seen the work become flatter and more opaque. The empirical notion of the painting as an object first and foremost was the central condition. But this train of thought led to an endgame and I needed a way to break out beyond that.

Actually, there is a quite a bit of dancing in Marx. To begin at the beginning, there are his poems, written for his distant love and ballroom baroness, Jenny von Westphalen, who waited for him seven long years as he studied to get his degree. Marx’s poetry reaches out to its promised partner with memories of the ballroom, or so one imagines, interrupted by long, if chaperoned, afternoon strolls. The verses whirl and twist, curl and rust. These are generic salon rhythms, hammered out somewhat mechanically, but the goal is earnest enough: to protect transcendent love and shared ideals from the dirty world.
Through an expansive practice that spans drawing, sculpture, video, and artist books, Kim contemplates a world in which perception is radically questioned. His visual language is characterized by deadpan humor and absurdist propositions that playfully and subversively invert expectations. By suggesting that what you see may not be what you see, Kim reveals the tension between internal psychology and external reality, and relates observation and knowledge as states of mind.
EFA Gallery continues its inaugural season into the summer with /How I Finally Accepted Fate/ curated by Jason Murison. In a two-part framework of diary and fiction, /How I Finally Accepted Fate/ examines objects and images which function through memoir.
To characterize the dilemma, we borrow a phrase from the title of an essay by Norbert Elias: /Involvement and Detachment/. These are not polar opposites; rather, they are integral elements in all human social and communicative action, always interconnected, on both the communal and the personal level. The richness of this tension is indicated by the existence of a whole range of near-synonyms for both terms: engagement, participation vs. exclusion and critical distance, for instance. On the other hand, there is no universal recipe for the way that interconnectedness is to be enacted.

So how can the humanistic tradition of art continue when humans are turning the biosphere into a place uninhabitable by humans themselves? An artist today may now suddenly find the only addressee to be a future of despair, of catastrophic human extinction, of death. What does art look like when it is made without any future to look forward to? 
This issue also scales the heights of Tibet in two features. Long-time China hand Meg Maggio interviews vanguard artist and curator Qiu Zhijie about the new mode of socially-conscious art he is practicing in China by taking students from the Hangzhou Academy of Art’s Total Art Studio on field trips to Tibet, where they created art works and conducted cultural surveys. In London, meanwhile, a group of expatriate artists from Tibet gathered for a roundtable with AAP contributing editor Eliza Gluckman to discuss the current state of art inspired by the place, mental and physical, known as Shangri-la.
In these works, Jacobs explores themes of memory, loss, distance, and displacement; she probes notions of language, dislocation, and retrieval. These are issues relevant to anyone aware of the passage of time and to anyone concerned with the particulars of personal identity, but they have special resonance for anyone whose life has been disrupted by change and relocation – experiences common to many Canadians, these days. That these themes are filtered through a female consciousness makes them, in my view, all the more arresting.
This seems proof that ideas taking objective form fall under the realm of aesthetics.
My relationship with 'Flowers and Leaves' evolved over time, influenced by backyard gardening and hikes in local mountains, as well as visits to museums to see historical textiles such as Bizzare and Rococo silks and chinoiseries. I am also interested in exploring issues of 'decoration' and its relationship to the 'feminine' reflected in textiles. Muybridge's photographic records from the 19th century show women doing domestic or mundane tasks. By layering these images with re-presentations of 'nature' I hope to demonstrate some of the contradictory assumptions about nature, culture, technology and gender roles.

Created for a pedestrian corridor next to the new Bellair building in downtown Toronto, the work LIGHT WIND proposes a series of white sails held in frames that follow the curve of a wave. These sails lift and ripple as the wind moves across them. Beneath the sails filtered light protects pedestrians from the summer sun. In winter, tiny white LED lights on metal mesh replace the sails; the lights forming their own wave patterns and ripples. Contact person Catherine Williams 416-961-9388. This work a proposal only.

The images are a survey of various aspects of the artist's work since 1975. As the objects are often reused in different combinations in different situations, they are untitled and undated. In most cases they can be hung on walls, placed on floors, or suspended from ceilings. The objectivity is emphasized by the subjectivity of placement; intention and chance in a continuing of space/time. Materials include acrylic, oil paint, ink, canvas, rayon, steel links and clamps, steel, wood and plexiglass.

Myths and stories about weavers have long been the focus of my work. Myths give shape to the past and inform our present and future. My involvement with mythic weavers, started with Penelope and Arachne, who were able to shape history through their weaving, as a powerful recorded language for women. My ideas about myths are about rationalizing the way symbols exhort power in a given society, so they flow fluidly from Greek myths to Fairy Tales, Science fiction and cyborgs.
I am the smallest of things, Kosher to the touch. The most heroic of rodent, The wildest of horsetail, 	Most mortal of gods.
Because of an incident, which involved our gang vandalizing the school, I was expelled. This ominous turn of events embarrassed and hurt my parents. I am neither ashamed nor proud of it. I only mention it because it led to a complete change of the utmost importance in my early life. I was put into the hands of my father and went to his studio downtown. Art Circle had been dissolved and he had gone with Bomac Engravers as an independent illustrator. He also worked solo as a freelancer. I worked in his studio from nine to five doing lettering samples for three weeks. I loved it because it was like being grown up. Throughout my early teens my father taught me technique and I was getting more and more interested in art. By then I had decided I wanted to be a commercial artist. I had no real sense of fine art, even though there were paintings and reproductions around my father's apartment and he painted part-time. I wanted to do work that was partially abstract, like the jazz album covers by David Stone Martin. The na�ve dream of every young artist then was to do a cover for the Saturday Evening Post; not necessarily like Norman Rockwell, but of that quality.

Painting

Evans seems to be using the more purely formalist geometry of his earlier paintings to create semi-recognizable signs that refer beyond the physicality of the canvas to the specific forms of nature, affirming in the process the tacit, formalist belief that visible phenomena are structured according to absolute, universal laws. Andrew Schulz, "Ric Evans at the Grunwald Gallery", C Magazine, (Winter 1987).
One of my major concerns is with the hybrid space of our contemporary globalized environment. In these spaces, the real and the virtual mingle becoming immersive, destabilizing and ecstatic. In the spaces through which I travel, photographing becomes a transgressive act done with the knowledge that I am under electronic surveillance, surveying the surveyors. But, I am primarily watched not by the desiring 19th century man, the flâneur who, in part, once watched women on the streets of Paris but by the all seeing electronic eye. Panopticonic space has moved outside of Jeremy Bentham's prison censoring our actions even in our blind spots. Extending beyond the urban 'gaze' of the surveillance camera, now we can all be tracked and positioned even in the wilderness. Space has collapsed blending the near and the far, the real and the virtual, the urban and the rural. In my paintings I try to visualize this new globalized space that is layered and fluid. I merge impressions of my present urban environment with, for example, those seen on T.V. of a bomb exploding in a remote village, memories of living for four months in a tent on Meares Island, B.C., or looking out of a train window going across Siberia.

with a text by Paul McCarthy (deutsch/english);

throughout his 30-year career, highlighting the artist’s formal and technical innovations. The exhibition includes the flamboyantly baroque /Don Quijote Segunda Parte/, a sculpture in the polychromatic anodized aluminum technique pioneered by the artist; his colorful /Maids of Honor/, a groundbreaking painting on rubber curtains; and his early encaustic wire mesh paintings.
Urquhart's association with Av Isaacs goes back to 1956, when he was only 22. Isaacs asked Urquhart to join his growing stable of artists, including Michael Snow, Joyce Weiland and Graham Coughtry. Two years later he embarked on the first of what would become annual, if not more frequent, sojourns to Europe, attracted to what he called the 'otherness' of the visual experiences there, especially the landscape, architecture and pilgrimage sites such as Lourdes and Vimy Ridge in France.

re:austria was formed as a response to the dramatic political changes in Austria, with the goal to keep a constructive and active discussion etc., alive and going in the next few years, by organizing demonstrations, panels, and events.     other forms of contemporary art are indeed possible. It is testimony to the creative power of artists for whom painting, filming, drawing, and sculpting are a way of understanding and experiencing the world.

Wit is a glutton. *He is also an all-rounder – a painter and sculptor who can switch from one medium to the other with the utmost ease. A nervous chaos winds its way through his work.*
Using conventions borrowed from art house and horror cinema, Anwar creates an atmosphere of ominous foreboding through the use of stark black and white footage that has been shot in a hand-held style at varying speeds. This is accompanied by a sparse soundtrack composed of Buddhist chanting, drumming and haunting guitar melodies. The baby goat screams as it is held down, and when the butcher slits its throat the effect is shocking. The work is gruesome, eliciting strong reactions from viewers, but it raises the question: Why is this so shocking when it happens every day?

Yet to continue questioning the logic of this displacement: — if photography now assumes the position of the ground of representation in the horizon of the pictorial field — what becomes of painting now that it is pushed out into the foreground as 'figuration’, but still stripped of its representational capability? A description of how this functions in the 'abstract’ segments of the canvasses of /El Taller/ follows.

The Elizabeth Foundation for the Arts believes in the essential importance of art in a civil society. The value of the artist’s creative spirit is not limited by age, race, nationality or acceptance by others.
**_Lauren Berlant and Elizabeth A. Povinelli_*_—_*_*Holding Up the
more complex vision of the identity of this town through the approaches of several of the most acknowledged artists of the contemporary art scene. Gabriele Basilico (Milan, Italia, 1944) Fuoricentro. From the standpoint of a specialized tourist who goes beyond the monumental heritage, Gabriele Basilico proposes a detained look at the territory structured around three axes, which create peripheral urban nuclei. He did not need a lot of time to get familiar with the area through which the town grows, which he visited by car, a means of transport we all use when we live outside the town center. He stems from this idea to portray, rather than the buildings-objects, the consequences of our present lifestyle, when living is less dwelling and more moving between limits. painting, video, performance and installation. The subjects and issues addressed by the artists are varied and range from a formal discussion on the nature of the still life in painting, to poignant statements about violence in Latin America, to investigations on the nature of language, knowledge and history. A shared element found in the projects is an experimental, investigative, praxis: a discursive process whereby each artist attempts to arrive at definitions to question, but not necessarily to fully answer, complex layers of meaning found in everyday life. and moving beyond the traditional paradigms and stereotypes associated with art from Latin America, explained cifos Director Cecilia Fajardo-Hill. Through its *Grants and Commissions Programs*, cifohas set forth the goals of assisting artists produce work that may lie outside commercial viability and providing artists with a unique platform to present projects that engage local and international audiences alike. *cifo*, the Cisneros Fontanals Art Foundation, is a non-profit organization, established in 2002 by Ella Fontanals-Cisneros and her family to foster cultural and educational exchange within the visual arts.Emilia Azcárate creates a large-scale sculptural installation by weaving and interconnecting black hairpins. In this piece, a mundane objecta black hairpinis transformed, alluding to circular structures such as /mandalas/ and womens hair, both subjects which fascinate the artist. Seen from up close, the sculpture (Untitled) possesses a delicate quality. When beheld from a distance the piece achieves the opposite effect, becoming imposing and fence-like. Alessandro Balteos /UNstabile-Mobile/ interconnects the histories of art, power, and politics in an installation that comprises a visual component of texts and images appropriated from varied sources, and the construction of a sculptural piece. Balteo translates the organic formation of oilfields by constructing an unstable sculpture. The sculpture, influenced by the work of Alexander Calder, becomes a visual metaphor for the instability of the region.

The new Intuit Series paintings explore a hybrid figural abstraction. The titles are verbs implying action as a process of becoming. I have been influenced by David Bohm's concept of Implicate Order, where everything is interconnected and enfolded within, thus bypassing the particle/wave dilemma. 'Impregnate' is a poetic evocation of that process. 'Exfoliate' is a gut response to the brutal skinning alive of cats and dogs for their pelts. 'Cybernate' references the cybernetics of Gregory Bateson, which addresses the structural patterns in all living systems. 'Operate' is a 'portrait' of my friend, Diane Victor, a great South African artist, who has polycystic kidney disease and urgently requires a kidney transplant.
For a long time already, the two Polish artists, Pawel Althamer and Artur Zmijewski, planned a joint project which they have finally been able to realize in the Dusseldorf Kunstverein. This project was done in collaboration with the Foundation Foksal Gallery in Warsaw. As he has in his former works, Artur Zmijewski takes the position of an observer working in the field of behavioral research who provokes and studies unusual situations. Four short portrait films show Althamer in different states; the artist is a medium, mediating the intensity of his experiences or sensual perceptions. The artist’s consciousness, extended through travelling, hypnosis and drugs, opens up a different, "alien" view on our direct surroundings. Banal situations are the starting point The motifs of Heike Baranowsky’s video pieces are taken from everyday life – a swimmer, a cyclists, a zeppelin or grass – and that’s why they seem familiar to the viewer at first sight. Through cuts and loops, however, one’s perception is disturbed after watching the videos for awhile: the swimmer never takes a breath, the cyclists don’t overtake one another even though they travel at different speeds.

_*Gean Moreno and Ernesto Oroza—**"Un solo palo no hace monte": Notes on the Otherwise’s Inevitable Infecundity*_ knowing what happened.
MacArthur Fellow, and Nicolai Ouroussoff, Architecture Critic, /The New York Times/ as they discuss the rise in importance of regional culture in the wake of global culture. Location, Location, Location will be moderated by Richard Flood, Chief Curator, New Museum. /Location, Location, Location/! Is Provincial a Bad Word? is the second in a series of Hot Button! panels organized by the New Museum in association with the School of Art at The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art. Hot Button! represents the first programmatic initiative of the New Museums recently appointed curatorial team.represent the spirit of an institution dedicated to new art and new ideas, and ready to embrace debate. Hot Button! panels aim to engage a broad audience interested in contemporary culture by featuring leading figures in contemporary art, architecture, cuisine, design and fashion in frank conversation with each other. superlative artists who focus on the current crisis in a sustained and critical manner. Rather than acquiesce to our current calamity, this exhibition asks if it is not time to push back against the disciplinary dictates of the capitalist logic and, as if by some artistic sorcery, launch a rescue of the very notion of the social itself. expression that grapples with an understanding of both local and international cultural transformations. Sense of belonging, nationalism, economy, and global village
*Flowers and Leaves : constructing nature*

s
Levy's work has also been interpreted as the "symbolic representation of an ideal condition, perhaps even of perfection. In response to this reference made by Toronto Star art critic, Christopher Hume, Levy suggests that, "since the original image, or the inspiration of some natural form was in a sense perfect, the actual sculpture can only be a symbol of this original form."

While I use a variety of materials and processes in each project my methodology is consistent. Although there may not always be material similarities between the different projects they are linked by recurring formal concerns and through the subject matter. The subject matter of each body of work determines the materials and the forms of the work.
I’ll gesture for you to follow me. "We’re in one of the walkways between the big tower and one of the smaller towers." It’s just 70 cm long, and about 50 cm wide. "Notice. Windows on both sides." You will feel like you’re also floating somewhere between two-dimensional and three-dimensional space. You will feel tiny and also immense because Berlin slices right through this anti-room.

We may be able to look at this another way. Because even though this apocalyptic view of the world sees the end of humanity, it also sees humans as the super-authors of their own doom, and even as authors of the collapse of the planet’s ecosystem. Humans may be eradicated soon, but at the same time this scenario understands humanity as more supremely powerful than at any time since the Enlightenment, even though this power is purely negative. 
Individual Spirit in Identifying Alternative Logics and Horizons of Connectivity: The debordering and loosening of economic, sovereign, social, cultural and historic frameworks by digitization, global trade and political movements are breaking the cages of our ideological and national logics. It’s time to consider the conditions in which transformative forces inspired and motivated by individual spirit are incubated on a societal, philosophical and artistic level.
This displacement produces a critical reference to the problematic relations that still remain between the legitimacy of painting and photography as constituted in the discourse of high art. My particular position on this issue is briefly stated as follows: that the ideal space of painting as an historically produced space of potential meaning, as the 'ground of signification’, can be itself also a 'material effect’ — that is, that the 'poetics’ of painting, rendered apparently obsolete by the vulgar specificity of the mechanical representation of the 'real’, can be recuperated, needs to be recuperated, as a functio-nal element in the construction of significant, historically compelling meaning. This recuperation of the conversion of the ideality of painting into a material effect is carried out through the dialectical and critical (and ironic, for what is given away is also taken back) contestation of representational function of both painting and photography (its arch-rival in the static visual arts at least) in the field of the picture.
A painting results from time spent 'drawing down', observing pure states of beauty in colour in which new visions occur. Multiple facets or possibilities call for hinging points to draw a bridge -- Silence -- to a continuum. Inner spaces paint and catalyze the language of colour and simple forms. The image draws itself, when background and balances within
In /I Want to See/ (2008), Catherine Deneuve, playing herself, asks actor Rabih Mroué, also playing himself, to show her the aftermath of the 2006 Lebanon war. As they drive towards the border and share the anxiety of the surrounding danger, a half-spoken complicity develops between them. Deneuve both denies and takes advantage of her status as a cinema icon to lend a fresh glance as well as to gain physical access to a landscape exploited and saturated by the media. distribute out-of-copyright sound recordings and a platform for collaborations exploring the archive material and its potential. Focusing on /Struggle in Jerash/, the work on show at Gasworks, the following discussion will address the politics of reanimating archive material and how their artistic methods were adapted to the Jordanian context. Instigating dialogue between about ten internationally-renowned artists whose works figure in the CNAP collections, and the Musée Guimet cultural heritage collections,/I went /takes visitors on a meditative journey. Werner Bischof, Christian Boltanski, Jean Clareboudt, Marie-Ange Guilleminot, Hans Hartung, On Kawara, Rei Naito, Pascal Pinaud, Ian Stallard, Xavier Veilhan….visit all realms of creative work to share their visions and inspirations from Asia.
Bolduc openly embraced the joyous fauvistic colour of Matisse, Derain and Dufy. Like his kindred spirit, David Hockney, he relished the primacy and graphic play of free-hand drawing and acknowledged the benefits to be derived from constant daily work upon advancing his art: /Nulla Dies Sine Linea/. For four decades Bolduc nuanced every opportunity to evolve his characteristic style and formats. The temperament and tone of the works differed widely from stately, restrained and under-spoken neutrals to riotous exuberant gregarious colour symphonies sporting metallic and iridescent pigments. Quietly, behind the scenes, Bolduc, synonymous with abstraction, had begun again to sketch from nature: floral motifs, still-life, trees and stars. He and painter Alex Cameron commenced annual sketching trips across the country, notably recurring visits to the rocky coastlines and forests of Newfoundland. Organically, Bolduc's studio canvases embraced this admixture; his invented spaces would be refreshed by direct observation of revered places. David Milne, John Meredith, Paterson Ewen and John Clark come into play, so too the watercolours of Greg Curnoe. In an act of re-unification with glories of art's past, Bolduc created a number of moving, transcendent nocturnes redolent of Van Gogh's /Starry Night/. (with Lawren Harris's late abstractions not too far from sight).

The Earth Evidence series starts with various representations of detritus found in ocean tide pools, along streams, on beaches etc. gradually moving onto the escarpment as inspiration and as structure. My love of hiking in wild places of the world and here on the Bruce Trail fuel my imagination to make these images. Various translations of rock faces have been developed, some which adhere to nature while others merely mimic a loose grid of the forms found in rock layers. Gradually whispers of fossil like forms appear between the layers. Eventually the walls give way to my inventions of new hybrids. I am concerned with the collapse of species, such that the diversity of genetic lineages is lost to the future. New hybrids may form where possible after some panic of species to find mates from what ever is left after the collapse of eco-systems in the near future. These shapes have been inspired by the Burgess Shale found in Alberta which hold fossils of creatures that had evolved in an ancient ocean before animals walked on land. These did not continue to evolve. Some forms are plant like while others suggest primitive animals.

Colour also functions as a factual component. One colour is equal in importance to the other. Colour is chosen intuitively by weight and presence and not necessarily by its coded, commercial, or representational properties. Mapping the colour to give the paintings its own oneness. Making clear the colour's intentions.
The four photographs of /El Taller/, taken in the summer of 1993, document the space of the studio in a precisely determined structure, with distinct angle shots that combine to represent a unified space, specifically work tables and a wall, against which stretched canvases are propped. These canva-ses are the very same ones upon which their own photographic images are laminated. The four dis-tinct photographs, each laminated onto a canvas of identical dimensions, were shot from slightly different positions but clearly describe a continuous space, a coherent geography of objects and architecture. This structure in itself is not necessarily significant from an interpretive point-of-view, but does involve the attentive spectator in a comprehension of the unity of the work through close observation of the photographic information. The self referencing of the photographic 'ground’ is also effected by the referencing of the tools of production (ladder, tables, stretcher bars, canvas, plier, stapler, etc.) and their relative positions in the image so that the 'topography’ of the photographic space can thus present these objects as figurative emblems that refer to a particular stage in the production process, that is, in the preparation of the canvas ground only, for in fact neither the photographic nor the painting process in itself are represented. There is an emphasis on the ground then, that draws attention to the problematic of 'figure-ground’ relations that are central to this series and all works on canvas related to it.

As dusk settles over the luminously glowing old bridge, only one solitary figure remains hanging, sheltered but alone. Jaki Irvine currently lives and works in Dublin, having spent many years in London and in Italy. Her works are single or multi-screen videos that explore with a melancholic and dreamlike humour the interaction between the natural world and the built environment, fuelled by a fascination with the human condition. hallucinatory journey into his strange and often frightening universe. Skeletons battle soldiers in murky swamps; towers of eyeballs goggle cartoonishly; flesh peels wetly off bare bones. Ziółkowski has an unflinching attitude to the corporeal: the body takes centre stage, at once defiled and dissected.

Jimmie Durham makes the first move in Dominó Caníbal, taking over the exhibition venue —the former Verónicas church in Murcia, Spain— and questioning the division between inside and outside in the Western sacred space: both a religious temple and an exhibition hall.

An overriding preoccupation in my work has been a growing doubt that painting can have contemporary relevance. Although it might be important to deconstruct and understand the art of the past from a contemporary perspective, my practice was striking me as increasingly academic. The current boom in the art market, and painting's resurgence in popularity (very similar to that of the early 1980s) only confirms that painting still feeds a populist notion of expressivity and individualism bound up in the authentic, unique object. So much for deconstructionist tactics.
I was born in 1957 and raised in North York, Ontario, a suburb of Toronto, where I began painting at the age of 13. My allied activities at this time were geology, chemistry and natural science. My interest in nature was more toward the experience, rather than understanding it. Exploring and experiencing the city ravines directly influenced me to become an artist. As this landscape did not include panoramic views, such as landscapes or forest interiors, weeds and rocks, this approach has remained with me throughout the years and only recently have I begun to paint skies, a much broader subject.

image: /Image of Samuel Beckett, Stirrings Still/, 1994, oil on canvas,
In 1999-2002 'Transmigrations', traveled to Los Angeles and Tijuana, afterwards it also traveled nationally. 'Transmigrations' represented a culturally diverse selection of South African artists whose work reflected a non-commercial approach. In a spirit of inclusivity we invited local artists of like-mind to exhibit with us. The exhibition was nominated for Tijuana's Cultura Premios award. One of my contributions was a kinetic piece called 'Bullet'. The viewer moves a lever to propel the 'bullet' into a 'torso' that opens on impact and falls forward. This symbolizes Western Civilization's impact on Africa.
On the web, I am interested in obsession, poetics, identity, language, and pop-culture. Some of my work on the web is beginning to draw lines between digital and performative interactivity - web projects include an online advice lounge and an activist project advocating the 'dispersal and erradication' of English Ivy.
While these works are focused on the social and cultural mechanisms underwriting the First World War, they are nonetheless relevant in relation to international conflict today. The retrospective look allows a long view of the nationalist and heroic rationalizations fueling the engines of war.
abstract
The mayor, with the town’s approval, rejects the offer, saying: "We are in Africa but the drought will never make us savages." The village
In Dublin, now some sixty years ago, the great physicist, Erwin Schroedinger, astonished me with the thought:
*_Simon Sheikh—Circulation and Withdrawal, Part I: Circulation_* <http://e-flux.com/journal/circulation-and-withdrawal-part-i-circulation> But the fact that the production of a magazine is withdrawn from the public is not the same as an exit from the public sphere as such; it is not a withdrawal from and of discourse. Why, then, circulation and withdrawal? This has to do with the relation a magazine has to its objects and subjects, and how it constitutes a public as specific, and sometimes in opposition to dominant forms of publicness and official cultural policies. Sometimes withdrawal is enforced, through economy or censorship, but other times it is intentional and tactical: the withdrawal from certain public debates and arenas is what makes an alternative cultural and critical production possible.

Realizing this avant-garde sensibility consists of a change of perspective within given conditions, not necessarily in the change of the conditions. It opposes the passive nihilism of society’s death drive, and the fundamental tendency of the symbolic order to perpetuate the same through continual displacement. In doing so it contests the basic conceits of linear time: the fetishization of history, mythologies that celebrate novelty and dynamic change, and the overriding imperative toward modernization.
With my father and his younger brother, my Uncle Harold, there was always an emphasis on the natural life, the bush, the animal world, fishing, wood lore, the ways of the Indians. The first books my father gave me were Ernest Seton Thompson books on how to survive in the bush, such as /Two Little Indians/ and /Wild Animals I Have Known/. North Toronto (Eglinton and Yonge), in what is now thick city, was surrounded by wild country. My uncle, who is also a commercial artist and a painter, made the most exquisite bows and arrows by hand. He taught me how to shoot and we'd lie in the snow with our bows for hours waiting for a rabbit to come out of its hole. There were even grouse and pheasants around then. We'd take the day's kill back to my grandfather's house and have roast pheasant for dinner. My uncle would use the quill feathers for arrow foils. There was a great sense of the land, wilderness, respect for animals, and what is now broadly referred to as eulogy.
4. Dissolved in pure water the platinum and iron salts are the emulsion, which is hand-coated with a brush onto a sheet of paper. The paper is then dried. It is usually used immediately, so only a few pieces of prepared paper are made at a time. Throughout the process, the photographer is well advised to keep a detailed, exact record of every step-the paper used, the number of drops of the chemicals, the proportions of the mixtures, the humidity of the environment and the paper, etc.-so that errors are not repeated. Errors are frighteningly expensive and time-consuming! Even when all goes well, it is not uncommon for a platinum photographer to make between five and fifteen attempts, with various combinations, to achieve the first "perfect print" from a new negative.
Dans son travail, Stewart utilise le matériel textuel de façons variées. Il compose lui-même et met en forme certains des textes. D'autres émanent de combinaisons de diverses sources existantes et sont ensuite mis en forme. Le plus souvent, les textes qu'il s'approprie sont édités ou redisposés ; leur sens propre et leur signification graphique sont transformés pour correspondre à leur nouveau contexte. Certains textes sont parfois tirés directement de sources imprimées (ou reproduits avec la police source), comme le sont les graphiques et les diagrammes scientifiques ou techniques qui figurent également dans ces œuvres. Des pages entières peuvent parfois être extraites et utilisées sans altération.
**_Thomas Elsaesser in conversation with Alexander Alberro—Farocki: A Frame for the No Longer Visible_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/farocki-a-frame-for-the-no-longer-visible-thomas-elsaesser-in-conversation-with-alexander-alberro/> *Just as hackers and Apple might well end up living in a symbiotic relationship—as host-and-parasite, rather than as outright foes—Farocki realized that a system can use its opponents as a way to self-regulate and stabilize itself.

*_Adrian Rifkin—Yes, That’s What I think_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/yes-thats-what-i-think/> Stricken almost speechless, my friend managed to say only, "Hello, big, isn’t it?" To which the tutor replied, "Yes, and shiny too," and passed on without more than a glance at the supposed masterpiece. Was it a judgment on my friend’s simplemindedness, or maybe on his incapacity even to have registered the shine? Or on the painting that was thus relegated to some storeroom of Adornian kitsch, even disqualified and misattributed, precisely on account of its shine, its over-varnish? A Caravaggio, even?

Black Velvet: refers to both High (Megalographic-80‚s Schnabel paintings) and Low (rhopographic-roadside depictions of bull fights on domestic fabric) Art. Black velvet also possesses an inherent spatial quality.
Although, seen in a broader art-historical context, the painting of the power, placing the viewer in the world of video game images, cut up and put together again by Chris Finley in postpop cubist style. In his sponsored booth, the Swiss artist Lori Hersberger (mezzanine) shows a multimedia installation with a wall painting in fluorescent luminous colors, neon light and a broken mirror. The art duo Tim Noble and Sue Webster (Modern Art), who place seemingly randomly chosen piles of household garbage in a dark room and illuminate them with a bright light, creating perfect silhouettes of the artist duo, may also be considered as related to the field of painting. For «Art Statements» the two artists are suggesting an ambitious 360º installation.The dissection of differing cultural norms also becomes clear in the work of the Japanese artist Tam Ochiai (Tomio Koyama Gallery) and the Nigerian artist Odili Donald Odita (Florence Lynch Galllery). While the Japanese artist transforms his great interest in western culture, film, literature, the world of fashion, and advertising into an installation, the Nigerian artist in his multimedia work manipulates cultural boundaries, exposes cultural imperialism, and plays with stereotypes of western culture. temporal marker to spark debate about how and when the first new theoretical and artistic ground was broken, positing the point at which the "expanded arts" of the Sixties could first be glimpsed. Choosing a field of radical invention before the leading names and terms of the decade were critically and historically defined—considering precursors such as Anna Halprin and John Cage, and breakthrough 1961 work by figures such as La Monte Young, Robert Morris, George Brecht, Henry Flynt, Simone Forti, Jackson Mac Low, Walter de Maria, George Maciunas, Ray Johnson, Emmett Williams, Nam June Paik, Yoko Ono, et al—the exhibition traces the initial crystallization of certain key ideas. At the center of this is the musical score, subjected to unprecedented experimentation, which became the ur-model for all the arts, rupturing disciplinary and medium specificity, revealing a newly activated creative field that extends from the postmodern to now.
Ireland
His fascination with the phenomena of light is related to his personal, inward search for mankind’s place in the universe. Influenced by his Quaker upbringing, which he characterizes as having a 'straightforward, strict presentation of the sublime’, Turrell’s art prompts greater self-awareness though a similar discipline of silent contemplation, patience, and meditation. The primary medium of Californian artist James Turrell is light. Probably the best-known artist in his field, Turrell’s entire oeuvre since the 1960s has been devoted to exploring the diverse manifestations of this immaterial medium and working towards a new, space-defining form of light art. While light here refers to nothing beyond itself, it causes surface, colour and space to interact and allows viewers to immerse themselves in a mysterious, painterly world. By focussing on simple, repetitive motifs Welling sought to remove photography from its insistence on the referent in order to arrive at something approximating the 'essence of perception.’ In concert with Welling’s desire to see how we see, rather than what we see his reduced yet very specific subject matter prompts a range of personal associations in the viewer.
But what can "remembering the present" mean, except having the irresistible sensation of having already experienced it previously? Inasmuch as it is an object of memory, the "now" is camouflaged as the already-been, and is thus duplicated in an imaginary "back then," in a fictitious "other-then." It goes without saying that between the current event, considered a mere repeat, and the phantom original prototype, there is no mere analogy, but rather the most complete identity. The present and the pseudo-past, which have the same perceptual and emotional content, are indistinguishable. The consequence is a troubling one: every act and every word that I say and do now seems destined to repeat, step by step, the course that was fixed back then, without the possibility of omitting or changing anything. injured. The Yemenis die as if they never lived. This is true mainly because the French blood flowed in a place full of light, in the City of Light, while the Yemeni blood flowed in darkness.
In the studio the painting is an ambiguous poetic terrain – a field of endless possibilities. During painting earlier passions and preoccupations surface and recede, leading to new insights into the language of painting. Painting is an act of contemplation or meditation; images, like words, invite us to think silently.

The Montreal Massacre in 1990 jarred my attention back to figurative art. The paintings refocused on human representation. /The Nature Paintings /and the interiors are ongoing.

Textiles have long played an important economic role and still do so today with NAFTA and global markets. Textiles reflect cultural exchanges, colonial relationships, cause trade wars and labour problems, (Ned Ludd was a Lancashire weaver, who fought the use of this new machinery and left us the term 'luddite'). Crafts and contemporary weaving are often associated with 'traditions' and a romantic view of a past, lost forever. Working with ones hands holds many of the same desires associated with a desire for untainted nature. In reality, textiles have been at the forefront of technological change. My hand-woven textiles combine the technologies of ancient looms with computers – art made possible through technology.
The "Veils’" ghostly imagery takes viewers on a journey that draws from Patkin’s life, which intersects with significant social and geopolitical events, including the AIDS crisis and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. As an expatriate navigating various changing cultural realities, Patkin is as wary of globalism as he is of nationalism. His works encapsulate the fleeting nature of our existence. For Patkin, we are, like his paintings, veils in a landscape, alternately hiding and revealing.
Peu importe ce que l’on investit dans un travail, il n’y a aucune certitude que ce qu’on y voit, que ce qu’on y met, soit effectivement perçu. Ce qui est retenu ne se limite souvent qu’à un sujet, à une dimension anecdotique, narrative. Le regard critique est un regard extérieur; la distance critique que l’on peut prendre face à son propre travail reste toujours teintée, biaisée; le seuil d’appréhension est déjà franchi et la disponibilité n’a pas à être sollicitée. J’ai donc essayé de faire ce texte autour de mon travail, sans trop chercher à analyser, à rationaliser ni à justifier mes choix; en tentant simplement de transposer en mots la structure de pensée qui le génère, en la suggérant, en l’effleurant au lieu de l’affirmer, et en essayant de rendre une des particularités des arts visuels: une oeuvre peut être structurée par stratification, par blocs de sens qui coexistent simultanément, qui sont présents en superposition, mais sans qu’il n’y ait de hiérarchie obligée. Mais tout travail d’écriture partant d’un travail visuel demeure tentative de traduction, opérant le passage d’un mode de pensée à un autre, et un travail de traduction reste une interprétation, une approximation . . . 

//Climb to our proper dark, that we may trace
Joseph Dadoune, through a "laborious" and long-lasting creative process of the treatment of film (change of color from colored to black and white, chronological shift of actions, interruption of linear narration, expulsion of concrete elements of natural architectural space, and utilization of special effects), presents the analytic conceptual dimension of created cinematographic reality (the film is based on the interjection of the three basic colors white, black, and red): the liberating nature of the natural and intellectual light against the terror of repetitive confinement that intervenes redemptively in a space-time without beginning or end (the viewer may watch the film without a time sequence). A ruin is defined as the disjunctive product of the intrusion of nature into an edifice without loss of the unity produced by the human builders. Time, proposed as the principal cause of ruin, serves also to unify the ruin. In a ruin the edifice, the man-made part, and nature are one and inseparable; an edifice separated from its natural setting is no longer part of a ruin since it has lost its time, space and place. A ruin has a signification different from something merely man-made. It is like no other work of art, and its time is unlike any other time.
A ruin definitely alludes to the dissociation of ubiquitous artworks, lost in their photographic "entombed" time. Hopeful ruins resist their representation by being fragmented and, like raw material, ever again available. They point out the fragility of images, which are just thin illusions, doomed to fail our expectations, doomed eventually to crumble. This explores the question of taboos in our society, reflecting on their meaning and nature in relation to the concepts of power, defeat, democracy, sexuality, idealism and integration.

In this issue: *Franco Berardi Bifo—The Future After the End of the Economy* <http://e-flux.com/journal/view/269> So how can semiotic labor be valued if its products are immaterial? How can the relationship between work and salary be determined? How can we measure value in terms of time if the productivity of cognitive work (creative, affective, linguistic) cannot be quantified and standardized?
I avoid details showing a 'moment in time', like a bird in flight, because it trivializes the subject by placing a limit on the experience. For that reason I either play down or even banish cast shadows.
Summers are spent in Newfoundland collecting specimens. Like the naturalist, I comb the beaches and dig in the soil. Both places reveal bones, rocks, and detritus. The 'artifacts’ I find, mostly rusty old tools, were used to harness horses, toil fields, and catch fish. I gather these objects and record their stories, accumulating an inventory of work and life. In Newfoundland, the small town museum is characteristic of remote outport villages intent on preserving their past. The locals rummage through their attics and 'stores’ dusting off long-forgotten treasures for display in the museum. Glass cases are absent; items are displayed openly on walls and tables. There is little to read but lots to see, visual information superseding the written word. The small town museum provides a model for my own museological presentations. Drawings, paintings, and specimens are grouped together in loosely defined categories. Specimens and their representations sit in rows on tables and shelves, or pinned to the walls like bugs. It is a museum without labels, a book without words. January 2003

In contemporary urbanization, a plethora of symbols and meanings has become the generic curtain behind which the abstraction of capital operates. It is for this reason that the task of the coming architecture  is not simply to unmask the undeniable abstraction of architecture as a process, but to make legible a form of architecture in which the awareness of the conditions in which we dwell can become the precondition for new forms of life within and against the power of abstraction.
Unlike other printing techniques that can yield numerous copies of a single image, a monotype, as the name suggests, is one of a kind. After a monotype is committed to paper, a ghost image remains on the plate; a /cognate/ that can establish the starting ground for reworking the image in a second monotype and so on. The plate must necessarily be worked on quickly, while the paint is wet, and often more than a single monotype is produced at one sitting. A canvas arrives, over time, at a final resolution; a series of monotypes, on the other hand, can chart various stages of the painting process. This appeals to the modern sensibility that is concerned as much with the journey as the destination.

I was drowning. I was five. A sunny August day, sitting on a single rounded rock in mid stream. Who put me there? I can't swim. Sliding down the green slime into a wonder-ment of dazzling light and greens watching the last gasp of bubbles. My eldest daughter once said she wanted to go home although she was home. In Nova Scotia, I live surrounded by woods. My painting prac-tice for the last ten years has been about watery places. All I really want people to do is fall in and drown in the work. Perhaps, the need to find home. That's why I paint. Since 1975 my painted work has dealt with surface tensions between figuration and abstraction, geometry, and organicism in play with large elemental fields of colour, or black and white. The paintings from (1997-2000) utilized a variety of international signaling codes; such as marine signal flags, ground to air signals, and Morse code. In the past works, these spatial images portended to vast oceanic voyages, and dangerous crossings in a dialec-tical tension with the systemic pattern and codifica-tion of the signal props. The work in this exhibition are more elemental and evocative of particular creat-ed spaces and places.

Taking place during Singapores inaugural international biennale of contemporary art, which also coincides with Singapores hosting of the Annual Meetings of the Boards of Governors of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank Group, these events provide a highly appropriate context for POWER STATIONs investigations. POWER STATIONs interventions into the citys political, financial and cultural centres of power invites the public to re-examine our understanding of identity in relation to authority, nation-hood and globalisation. Inviting reflexivity, it pertinently questions the authority of these power centres while highlighting their significance in framing a sense of belonging, pride and unity. meanings of the term power, Cagols engagement with the public underlines the complexity of power and authority. Neither definitive nor univocal, the concept of power is infinitely expanded. However, this multiplicity is subverted by the distribution of badges, once a symbol of rank but now playfully utilised as an accessory. The broadcasting of anthems of nations in power juxtaposed with those of the aspiring powers-to-be hints at the universal appeal for power, at once resisted yet irresistible. In this way the project highlights how power, as manifested through the visible centres of respected authority, inhabits every aspect of contemporary society and is silently rooted in every individual.
I lived in Niagara Falls until the end of 1960 when I went to London to be Artist-in-residence at the University of Western Ontario. I was the second Artist-in-residence in Canada, Goodridge Roberts having preceded me at the University of New Brunswick.
Sculpture
For an exhibition in late 1993/early 1994 at a gallery in Zagreb, Kožarić moved the contents of his entire studio into the gallery, where he lived and worked for the exhibition period. This studio was presented at Documenta 11 in 2002. Since 2007, when the City of Zagreb acquired the work and bequeathed it to the local museum of contemporary art, Kožarić has initiated several transformations of the space, which contains approximately 6,000 works. About 360 works from the Kožarić studio will be presented in the exhibition, supplemented by loans from major public and private collections.
Lorsque je peins, je perçois de tous mes sens mon être dans le présent. Je peux dessiner n'importe quoi et le processus décompose les détails de la réalité en points discrets de couleur. Le résultat me fait réfléchir sur les limites concrètes du destin et de la désintégration corporelle.
Basement and other places, inside and outside
Original becomes dead stand in, not worth much

Transformation of our environment is represented in /*Breaking Earth*/, the collaboration of video artist *Alfred Guzzetti* and composer *Kurt Calvert 22 presents …how is it towards the east? a month-long exhibition and series of events which aim to make visible a body of research into the histories, both personal and collective, of the Calvert 22 building and surrounding area. Fostering conversations around how histories are written and recorded in print and on screen,  . . . how is it towards the east? critically examines modes of self-organisation and the traces of Eastern European and Russian immigration in the East End.

I am aware of the 'Women of the Shadows’ metaphor threading through lesbian pulp novels to contemporary analysis of lesbian literature, for example, Terry Castle’s /The Apparitional Lesbian/. The photographs play on this metaphor along with the history of criminal and sexual danger sited in urban alleyways, i.e., Thomas Annan’s photographs of Glasgow alleys, Jacob Rii’s photos of criminal gangs in NYC, Brassai’s /'The Secret Paris of the 30’s/, etc.

USA
The status of corruption may be said to lie at the division of visible and invisible labour, and at this tipping point it "acts out" and loops back into the body politic as a sentient character. The daily-wage worker and the cognitariat are equally implicated in this realm and made subservient to the uncanny sweep of the veiled hand of corruption. The social contract is breached repeatedly through its perverse pleasure fantasies and subterranean nightmares.
The Great Learning was a score in seven paragraphs, rooted in and acoustically generated by the Confucian text of the same name. Playing on the title of the great learning as it relates to The Knowledge and its own system of learning, and borrowing from the methodology, structure and political intent of Cardews score, Gibson and McCarthy have used both aural and non aural research into the knowledge as the generative principle behind composition. The score for 'if the route’ provides the basis for both realization of live performance and the radio works.

deconstruct the idea of Dada as a style and so in effect de-Dadaise Dada. After a research in the Dada archives of the Kunsthaus in Zurich, the artists came to the conclusion that Dada can never be rectified. The only thing that can be done today is to either illustrate Dada or de-Dadaise it, meaning that all the elements contained in the Dada ideal would have to be put back together again. Hence the Brothers have left Dada with a headache. They have created a tilt situation that leads towards the death of Dada through an act of hyper-affirmation that extinguishes both our Dadaist past and Dadaist present. In effect the Brothers fight fire with fire.

on various issues, we displayed a long drawing that mapped the network of a fictional building project. A stadium construction site sat in the center of the drawing and both sides charted the paths of migrant construction workers as they travel from their villages to job sites as well the movement of a steel truss from design to fabrication to a building site. In the drawing, a steel truss is designed by architects based on the overall stadium design, aesthetics, and functional criteria.  
We, The Outsiders revolves around a single work—a gigantic egg—by Argentinian artist Federico Manuel Peralta Ramos that provides a title and script for an exhibition that investigates where consciousness begins and ends in relation to art. Titled Nosotros afuera [We, the Outsiders] (1965), the egg is a microcosm of the space of creation that we cannot immediately access, and it silently remaps and inverts our understanding of what is inside and what is outside of consciousness and creation. This gigantic egg marks more of a beginning than an end, but also a moment when the artist declared himself tired of language. He and he alone can decide on the meaning of words. Yet if he remains the only one who knows the meaning, the whole process may end up a radically solipsistic effort.

*_Filipa César—Joint Leopard Dot_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/joint-leopard-dot/> Then Harun told me how he was interested in the deviations of meaning and the polysemic nature of words. He said that if he were to choose another occupation, he would be an etymologist.

Canada

Path Beginnings the open road ramble proceed pavane feet of clay stray dogleg dead end detour crooked mile thrawn skewed skewwhiff ford slip trace roundabout repeated circuitous well-trod retrace accretions burnished shining glory endless skeins of time
I didn't set out to be an environmental artist or to create artwork relating to social commentary but as my portfolio developed and people started to review my work, the descriptions started to emerge and I began to notice a pattern I hadn't intended but am now please with.

short documentary video

While the 13th century development of this notion of time, ëmetric timeí, has also become one of the cornerstones of Western civilization. It has also been instrumental in alienating humans from themselves and each other. Without the metric time concept, science, industry and technology could not have developed. However, our sense of time as it relates to the environment and our biology has been suppressed in the process. I believe it has resulted in a human experience that is often skewed away from the essences of being human.
The essence of being is in the act of having compassionate understanding; a simple notion that encompasses all that is social and political within the sphere and limits of one's own environment and personal experiences.
Art education, on the other hand, has deeply internalized this problem by taking the inverse for granted; that one writes; first, and only later develops a language with which to read what was written. What would it mean to then build an institution around this idea? Such an institution would necessarily be ahistorical, and perhaps even amnesiac. It would resemble a Tower of Babel, in which each work could be understood as its own language, projecting its own art history.

Bien que l'attachement premier de Stewart soit à l'économie interne des œuvres en tant que parties indépendantes de son travail, il se préoccupe particulièrement de la question de la cartographie des significations. Si l'instrumentalité des glissements d'images et de sens est évidente, elle doit être vue comme un symptôme plutôt qu'une cause du contexte social. Certains images et fragments peuvent réapparaître dans plusieurs tableaux mais avec un traitement ou une atmosphère différente ou à une autre échelle, et ainsi être employés à des fins très variées. Et une œuvre peut utiliser des éléments de natures diverses, des techniques ou des effets pour créer une nouvelle cartographie de significations. C'est cette variété et ces fins tout particulièrement qui sont examinées.

Rediscovered: The painter *Uwe Lausen* mixed radical social criticism with bold formal experimentation.

*Juan Luis Moraza* (b. 1960, Vitoria-Gasteiz)  Under the title of /Republica, /Moraza arranges a constellation of intersections—the pending and the upcoming, the necessary and the impossible, the common and the individual, and the local and the planetary. The artistic media assemble the content in response to two questions or matters: the matter of configuration and the matter of representation. Both of these matters are concentrated in the commitments and requisites of the work brought to life in the sculptural suite on show in /Itinerarios/. 
Now I do two kinds of painting. The first is a kind of citified, urban painting, more cerebral, less influenced by my actual surroundings. In other words, I'm neither painting nor influenced directly by the back alleys of Spadina Avenue. But when I'm up north my palette changes automatically and the method by which I paint changes, the aspects of touch and colour are more affected by the environment. I began to paint the peculiar light that exists only in northern Ontario. Part of the lure of the north is its strange Pre-Cambrian light and the reflection off the thousands of lakes that exist there and the jungle-like growth. The sky is, even in the hilly country up there and with the density of the bush, overwhelming. I'm sure these features were major attractions for the Group of Seven. As for those members that went to the Rockies, Fred Varley and Arthur Lismer, their paintings changed considerably when they were in a different environment.
The /Plan for Painting Series/ would not have been made possible without my having gone through the psychological process of perceiving an end in art as an end. That is to say, an end in art is not an end until it is perceived. Happily, a vulnerability in the emotional, and psychological content of the Plan for Paintings invite viewers to engage objects that are in effect visually addictive. Or encourage viewers to encompass, and embrace a visual process complimentary to their sustained anticipation of the work. Such an addiction to vision resides through viewers identifying with their aesthetic appreciation of the depth, and scope of perception contextualised by the conceptual, and plastic limits of abstract painting.

Furthermore, in the earlier work titled /Corner of the Studio/, the image represents the studio as a place for intellectual production only in an indirect way. Unlike other works of this type (eg. the '/Hotel/ series’), there is not even any paperwork in evidence, only boxed musical and recording equipment, and a single open book on the divan. Yet the various objects and furniture in the image do indicate potential activity: the forementioned book, musical equipment, an ashtray and a case of beer. Industrial buildings can be seen through the window. The open book, on the edge of the divan next to the chair (largely obscured) where I had been sitting, is in fact, although indecipherable as such in the photograph, '/Un Coup de Dés/’ by Stephane Mallarmé, a book which, over the past twenty years, has functioned for me as a cipher for abstraction as a poetic concept, for the concept of the 'unreadable’ at those moments when there seems to be 'nothing to say’.

I once wrote, "I am not able to find my thoughts without passing through his [Jalal Toufic's] words, books, and concepts." Now, eight years later, things seem to have gotten worse (or better).  Jalal wrote in /Distracted/:  — Are you saying this to me?  — Also to myself. One should speak solely when also speaking to oneself. Only then is there a dialogue. I can also think of the following situation:  — Are you saying this to me? — Yes. And not to myself. And only to you. Or an instance in which the following is heard:  — Are you saying this to me?  — Also to myself. One should speak solely when also speaking to oneself. Only then is there a duologue.

Now, all the signs say there is a good chance much of this support will dry up, and that before too long we will all be poor. But at the same time, this likelihood is not the result of a single political agenda (though many politicians in places like the US and the Netherlands welcome the cuts), but a much broader series of collapses in a global economic system that by now eludes the possibility of identifying clear ideological friends and enemies. The problem really affects us all.
Janet Logan's work is based on making research into identity and memory. To do this, she must look back over her life, but this also means she has to shape, interpret and invent her past. The titles of some of her individual exhibitions are revealing of her concerns, such as /M�moires et r�ves, Sucrerie et conte de f�es, Mythes, m�moires et r�alit�s /, as well as the title of one work /Elle a �t� �lev�e dans du coton (She was given a sheltered life) /. Who is Janet Logan? A woman, a feminist, a designer of costumes for the theatre, a painter, a visual artist creating installations, a translator, an Anglophone who moves in a Francophone milieu not to mention her particular character traits, which are not the subject of our reflection but which are an integral part of her identity.

I am most often described as being a landscape painter, and I suppose I am, but I am not of the 'scenic' variety. I don't seek out and record the novel or search for impressive natural splendour to depict. I consider that a form of 'artistic tourism', getting a small taste of an alien locale, recording quick sketches of a place you have no real connection to, and then elaborating the theme from faint and passing impressions. The result, more often than not, is that you create mole-hills out of mountains.

In the lead-up to major cultural events including the Shanghai Expo and the Biennale of Sydney, /ArtAsiaPacific/ adopts an optimistic view of the future in our May/June issue. Inspired by the mission of the World’s Fair to promote cross-cultural gatherings not as contests but as opportunities for human advancement through the exchange of ideas, we explore how artists pursue aesthetics and politics in the hope of seeing their way through a world that is both dizzy with change and mired in old fears and assumptions.
*_Anselm Franke—A Critique of Animation_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/a-critique-of-animation/> Not only is it cheaper to use real actors in motion capture than to produce characters from scratch in digital animation, it is also the way to ensure that technology today has always-already been pushed beyond the uncanny valley, because that valley itself is now bridged by the investment of life into machines.
I am interested in exploring painting as a reductive process, wiping away parts of the original photographic image. The images begin as photographs transferred to mylar. I can then isolate and combine architectural and pictorial elements from different photographs on to one image. Familiar elements are then wiped away, replaced with a painted void. The final painting on mylar combines both photographic and painted image. One intrinsic quality of the photograph is that it stands as a record of a time and place. I am excited by the potential of how far this property can be erased before meaning collapses. Thus, my current body of work is larger in scale, moving away from the single point perspective into a less clearly defined pictorial space.

Generous men, they paid me eighteen dollars a week to start, which was more than a fair salary for what they received in return. Wookey, Bush and Winter were to become semi-heroes in my life. I'd wander into Jack Bush's office, for example, and he'd be doing Harvey Wood's underwear ads for men and women, and we'd talk of the importance of drawing as the basis of all art. He experimented with different paints that were coming out at the time. Sometimes I'd stand for hours behind him, while he chewed gum trying to quit smoking, watching him do these marvelous illustrations. He'd talk and I'd ask questions. Once he put down his brush and said to me, 'Young Gord, if you are going to be an artist you must think of art all the time, it must be uppermost in your mind, you must rediscover your eyes, even when they are sleeping you must be looking!' I'd become bolder as time went by, learning the technical aspects of commercial art, all that it entails - printing processes, colour separations, what photographs can do, how to cut mats instead of fingers. All the while practicing, /practicing/. They gave me a raise to twenty dollars a week after the first year and allowed me to do bits and pieces in their ads: a little lettering, a little over-lay painting - which was encouraging. I started to wear suits. I was nearly eighteen and sophisticated enough to listen to a little classical music.
Named after Elem Klimov’s 1985 film, /Come and See/ provides an opportunity to behold an impressive array of works by these prolific artists. Above all, however, it is an invitation to keep our eyes open, to bear witness, to question and, perhaps, even to delight.

I prefer to paint subjects on a more modest and familiar scale, weeds, rocks, trees which are found in my own backyard, 400 acres worth. When I paint small themes on a large scale, I gain rather than lose a sense of monumentality.

*The Centre for Contemporary Canadian Art* *The Canadian Art Database: *Canadian Artists Files

Unlike most nature artists, I'm quite ignorant about the names of plants. It's something I don't need to know. To prevent myself from painting in a finicky style, I always paint the smallest possible detail with my largest possible brush. I'm happy that this business of painting allows me to shamelessly exploit nature, without having to destroy it. I'm left with the option, if not duty, to improve on it.

Tom Morton explores the work of Jeremy Deller from Advance Warning Sign to Acid Brass, Secret Hand Signals for the Middle Classes, The Battle of Orgreave, and his latest project After the Gold Rush.

I designed an apparatus that would serve to literally physically demolish war-torn buildings located on what used to be the battlefields of Beirut. The demolition apparatus would also serve as a memory collector, an inhabitable capsule in which memory is deposited as quantified data. The more memory you collect, the more matter you demolish. The ashes of the building would be collected and stored in a newly-constructed transparent peripheral membrane. The process ends with the complete demolition of the ruin and the physical saturation of the transparent peripheral membrane and the memory collector.
he "unbounded world" does not pertain to some return to "nature," but is the effect of a particular institutional regime that regards any limit as potentially already outmoded. Far removed from the model of a central power directly controlling subjects, the performance/pleasure apparatus is apportioned into diversified mechanisms of control, evaluation, and incentivization and pertains to all the cogs of production, all modes of consumption, and all forms of social relations. One common explanation for why intellectual property makes no sense in an era of file-sharing uses the example of what happens when you copy a file on a computer. Copy-Paste: a second file has been produced, but the original is unaltered. Now it has a sibling, a partner, a twin. And if they keep reproducing themselves in this way, no problem. Which is to say that, at least in the digital domain, the entire calculus of scarcity is very different from the material domain. The difference between a single entity, two entities, or a billion is almost nil. Under these circumstances, as the argument goes, reintroducing laws of scarcity by limiting access is simply backward.
by the weightless flat screens now commonly used for advertising in metropolitan high streets. Juxtaposing his personal and highly expressive methodology for composing moving image within a framework more familiar to technological advertising space, Richards seeks to understand our quotidian experiences of digital advertising as engaging an emotional and complex set of relations between audience and images.
/*Newton versus Quantum Mechanics*/ Our common view of reality is as a space/object/time phenomenon. This Newtonian perception is directly challenged by Quantum Mechanics, a new physics where distinguishable objects in space become indistinguishable at a sub atomic level. The subjectivity of the observer also affects the outcome of whether a particle or a wave is perceived in experiments.

"The wilderness is a constant source of aesthetic and spiritual inspiration to me. I turn to these unspoiled areas for a sense of peace and solace. All of my work is dedicated to interpreting the visual harmony of our natural heritage. Printmaking, my chosen medium is very indirect and elusive. My original etchings are varying combinations of drawing, etching, aquatinting, photography, and painting. Each medium has something to say and I never know exactly what it is until I peel the print away from the plate. There are always surprises. These original intaglio prints are personal and patriotic statements celebrating one of our greatest assets: our natural environment. They portray the subtle and inspiring wilderness in less well-known areas of Canada and the United States. My work touches a common chord of familiarity amongst viewers. There is a sense of primal longings, seasonal changes, and the mystery of the wild lands we need in order to better know ourselves."
An artist’s words are always to be taken cautiously. The finished work is often a stranger to, and sometimes very much at odds with what the artist felt, or wished to express when he began. At best the artist does what he can rather than what he wants to do. After the battle is over and the damage faced up to, the result may be surprisingly dull--but sometimes it is surprisingly interesting. The mountain brought forth a mouse, but the bee will create a miracle of beauty and order. Asked to enlighten us on their creative process, both would be embarrassed, and probably uninterested. The artist who discusses the so-called meaning of his work is usually describing a literary side-issue. The core of his original impulse is to be found, if at all, in the work itself. Just the same, the artist must say what he feels:
Elsewhere in Finnegans Wake does not the fallen Finegan become "Finn Macool lying beside the Liffey, his head at Howth, his feet at Phoenix Park, his wife beside him, watching the microcosmic 'fluid succession of presents’ go by like a river of life"?

/Artifacts from Pecos/ represents tools from a 10th century Pueblo village. Shaped and worn, these objects remain close to their natural formation. At once rock and hammer, bone and awl, they represent a fine line between nature and culture. In contrast to Pecos, I collect landfill fragments and aggregate (cement, rock, bricks, tiles). Made round and amorphous by the action of water, they appear as 'city rocks’; culture mimics nature. I have a variety of shapes, colours, and sizes that depend on their combination to create classification. Worn bricks can look like 6thC BC loom weights or 21stC hot dogs, depending on their context. They are a simulacrum; they are relic and rubble.

its hosts. But now there are so many petitions, so many threats to withdraw, that it becomes clear that the conditions for producing and exhibiting art have become ethically unbearable for too many artists—and this comes at the same time that the economic and political utility of contemporary art is becoming clear to global players discovering how supporting vanguard cultural production can humanize their own image. Where industrialists before put their surplus into culture*—*often to curry favor with the municipality—now municipalities, industrialists, and feudal lords alike use culture as advertising. And the staggering number of boycotts can be understood as the artistic response to these particular advances in the industrialization of the art world, and of art.
/POWER STATION takes the form of public intervention, highlighting contemporary influences, beliefs, pre/misconceptions and belonging. Power, in various forms extends its influence to our daily lives yet our notion of power and its extent of influence is often, perhaps deliberately, overlooked. The project challenges our understanding of identity in relation to authority, nation-hood and globalisation. Moving and interacting within/outside centres of power, be it cultural, political or financial, POWER STATION aptly questions their authority and invites reflexivity yet inevitably becoming an accomplice to these power games./
*Paulina Olowska* combines a wide variety of influences – references to modernist utopias encounter the autobiographical; Pop Art meets the visual residue of Warsaw Pact Socialism.

My painting follows from that of Miro, Pollock, Louis, Frankenthaler and Poons. By exploring the fluid forms of painting, images or motifs are derived from the painting process itself. The process of layering fluid colour and opening the surfaces to reveal colour enables me to compose my images. The topographical separations in the paint, dubbed /crazing/, have many associations with natural organisms - like the opening of the earth's surface or magnified biological cells - reflecting the behavior of the paint itself. I select, edit, collage, crop and undulate the surfaces of the shapes to create the necessary tension, balance and unity in the formal character of the works.

As a student in 1970’s New York I learned to paint in what was even then considered the "tradition" of abstraction. However, I found my own voice as an artist when I rejected the tenets of abstraction in my own practice and embarked on my lifelong fascination with the challenging tradition of narrative figure painting. It was an invitation to teach painting in Vancouver, British Columbia which brought me back to Canada in 1980. I have since taught in various schools throughout North America and currently teach at Concordia University in Montreal.

/It is what it is. Or is it?/ includes sculpture, painting, photography, These artists’ works offer us unique opportunities to address the contemporary legacy of the readymade. Additionally, the catalogue for this exhibition, designed by Dancing Foxes Press, gathers previously published texts by Duchamp, Lucy Lippard, Joseph Kosuth, and Claire Fontaine to establish a direct relation to the process of recontextualization that the readymade engages in. Together, these artists chart our changes in perception, demonstrating that artistic practice has become notably more politicized and engaged in addressing a diversity of social, aesthetic, and temporal realities.

I don't set out to produce art about one subject or another. I'm never without a sketchbook to hand so I am constantly drawing and sometimes the drawings are left in the sketchbook and other times they develop into more in-depth ideas and detailed images.
This issue begins with /ArtAsiaPacific/ senior editor Don Cohn’s investigation of the work of Taoist pyrotechnician Cai Guo-Qiang, who rose to fame with his explosion events at sights around the world, as he prepared for a landmark survey exhibition at New York’s Guggenheim Museum. Cai, who was raised in China and also spent a seminal period in Japan before moving to New York, has transformed the iconic Frank Lloyd Wright rotunda with a site-specific installation that explodes, as Cohn envisions, "in orgasmic cataclysm, immediately thereafter reverting to a /yin/ state of cool repose and achieving a desirable balance in the process."

The scale of conspiratorial thinking in Russia is now comparable to that of the US after 9/11.* *But the problem with conspiracy theories is not the fact that they are false products of a paranoiac imagination, but rather that some conspiracies /do/ exist. To reject this means to turn a blind eye to one of the many important tools of world politics. It thus seems crucial to avoid a simplistic opposition between middlebrow paranoiac thinking, and apparently enlightened reason unaware of its own blind spots.
We found rusty implements, marvelous pieces of junk, where the loggers had passed through years before. We would make found-object sculptures, place them in the fields and deep in the bush, like silent, sacred totems, only to return the next year to find them crumpled, tilted and fallen. So we'd reconstruct them differently, giving them a new existence. Some are still there, rusting in the elements.

Coming from scientific research where I studied cell normal and abnormal development and spent many hours looking at cells to see when a variant was abnormal. Later as a weaver and artist working in textiles, the language of pattern became a main interest, how do fabrics such as pins stripes suits, jeans and kitchen towels communicate as patterns (rather than objects) Mostly then my interest was in disrupting those patterns or making our automatic reading of them evident. Also in my hand weaving I focused on patterns that were interesting (again on the microscopic level) i.e. patterns with as many colours as possible and patterns that evolved dynamically to create narratives.

Modern times have transformed the way ruins and monuments are approached and considered to the point where ruins became "contemporary ruins", closer to present than to past. "Contemporary ruins" are produced both by the acceleration of time and the growing fascination with deterioration. They test the very idea of a ruin within a system of objects structured by the invention of permanency. Good ruins do not illustrate or morally demonstrate this, but are able to re-reverse logics of time from science fiction to archaeology, from peplum to I-pod. Ruin lets off the very idea of theme because the ruin uses up any theme.
It has been difficult for me to reconcile my late 20th Century sensibilities with my obsession with chronicling the seasons passing over my pond in Flesherton. Lately, I have come to think that the need to paint my environment comes simply from existing as a northern person who is constantly engaged with surviving our extreme elements. The northern experience is tied to the sun's retreat into long cold nights and the fleeting endless days of summer. The forces of Nature are etched as deeply in our psyches now as when Tom Thompson, Emily Carr and the Group of Seven were making their paintings in the true north strong and free. Today, in 1996, I work in a spirit much like theirs. I continue to find a source of regenerating creative power for my work in the relentless force of nature.
I originally went to Charlie's as a boy to fish the river with my parents on their holidays. It wasn't until my late teens, when I started to go away with young ladies on weekends, that I realized it might be possible to rediscover this paradise. The first art I made there was in my first notebook, a few sketches from nature. I soon began to spend every summer there, back in the bush, enjoying the company of friends like Burton, Coughtry, Markle and sculptor Nobuo Kubota.
But what are these levers? Or for that matter, how has architecture always given form to the immaterial or intangible spatial effects in communication pathways, or war, rubble, memory, tourism, and cultural capital? Hasn’t architecture always provided a way of reading ethical transgressions in reverse, of giving them form, for better or for worse? How has physical architecture always been a symptom of ideology? How has it always been a communications infrastructure?

*Itziar Okariz* shows a new installation entitled /*Ghost Box */produced specifically for *sala rekalde*. The installation comprises various sound and film captures recorded during a series of actions carried out by the artist in the Killarney lakes, a natural park in the south of County Kerry in the west of Ireland. This area is noted for its remarkable topography, since it consists of a chain of rocky mountains and three lakes. This is a natural enclave where some of the most extraordinary echoes in the world can be heard.
My painting can be seen as two streams of inquiry which ultimately seek to discover the same thing. The landscape paintings, which I have been making since the mid-1970s, seek to reveal my emerging understanding of the non-duality of nature. These works have gone through a range of artistic treatments, with the 1990s seeing a focus on space, light, atmosphere and distance.

Influenced by Richard Long's evocative walks in exotic or places, removed from the daily bustle of life, I want to instead make sense of those very mundane trips. The things we do daily, rather than those we dream about. Reading Rebecca Solnit's /Wanderlust: A History of Walking/ shows that walking can have many different purposes from pilgrims and spiritual journeys to hikers, celebrating nature and healthy living and pushing their physical strength. I am also interested in the idea of exploring the city, or what Walter Benjamin calls 'to go botanizing on the asphalt" and more absurdist structural approaches explored by 'Situationists' and 'Psychogeography', where we suspend habits and preconceptions and set up systems to discover patterns we have not seen before.

Most of my work over the past ten years has dealt with the spiritual desolation of the post-modern psyche. We no longer have hope that science and technology will replace God, saving us from all ills as we did at the beginning of the 20th century. Many of us now see the ignorant misuse of our technology as the direct cause of our present global peril. My //Madonna// Series, (1979-1983), depicts the new God as Technology, and the new Mary impregnated by the mass-media, often depicted as a TV monitor, as in "The Technological Rape of the Virgin". My /Angel/ Series, (1982-1984), narrated the disembodiment of the Human Spirit, using the archaic symbol of the Angel to represent humanity's link with a higher spiritual awareness, being ignored in various familiar contemporary settings such as "Angel in the Rivoli". The /Rachel/ Series, (1984), showed a resignation to the inevitable corruption of the individual in contemporary Western society. Rachel is relentlessly pursued by animate and inanimate symbols of cultural materialism until she is ultimately overpowered and raped by the transcendental image of the Devil. The paintings that followed had no overt religious symbolism. The humanoids in the pictures had become phantoms and manikins. (/Alchemical Love/, 1985.) They were painted as empty shells caught in clich�d, mundane, staged environments. Finally, these environments became empty rooms within which inanimate objects carried only subliminal traces of their ghostly inhabitants. (/Red Interior/, 1985.) At this point the human narrative ended in my work.

The bearish art market of the 1980s, so critiqued in the art theory of the 90s, has returned, more post-ideological, ahistorical and polyglot than ever. Despite the legacy of conceptualism, institutional critique and the anti-object, even the most radical gesture can now be co-opted, finding its way to a life as a material, archived, commodified object. It is difficult not to see the materialism and lack of direction in the art world as paralleling the crisis of what we call the "real" world, with its imperiled environment and world-wide energy shortages, and the frightening political ramifications of both.

The project is scouting for a public space in the public space through the possibility of a scream. [ . . . ] The inaudible scream that lingers in those photographs perhaps brings into question their political existence.

Jennifer Marman and Daniel Borins work collaboratively in the field of large format sculpture, mixed media, installation and electronic art.

Rather than thinking of my colours as being on surface of the painting, I prefer to think of colour as /in/ the painting: like tattooing the colour into the surface.

Against establishing cohesive thematic groupings of artworks, /It is what it is. Or is it?/ is a speculative proposition that considers how artists are using and making readymades today and how we can learn something from them about a contemporary state of being. The readymade, and its multiple legacies, demand that we be active viewers. /It is what it is. Or is it?/ culls together different, even unexpected, approaches to the readymade to insist upon its relevance as a method, practice, and approach for artists today. The exhibition is organized by Dean Daderko, Curator, Contemporary Arts Museum Houston.

My work is an act of being in the world; a celebration of all and nothing.
In choosing the colour of the paper and the colours of the various paints, the final image was always held strongly in mind. The simplest marbling technique, 'stone patterning' seemed most appropriate for the poison arrow frogs in works like /Camouflage/ or /Rainforest Floor/. These circular globules of colour suggest stones, or microscopic cells, and interact vibrantly with the variegated skins of the amphibians. The turtle in /Fragments of Debris/ is an exact re-creation of the turtle in waves, allowing for an assessment of the similarities and differences in the two ways, arriving at an image.

I incorporate direct observation as well as photographs of scenes which I stage using live models and costumes. The process of working back and forth from model to photograph to canvas can continue for many months, creating a layering of reality and narrative interpretation. My technique is loosely based on the pre-impressionist oil painting process of laying glazes over a well delineated underpainting. Beyond the dramatic effects of light and dark which underpainting and glazing allow, this technique gives me a deep sense of continuity fundamental to my narrative expression.

After the show, I returned home to paint.

Still, the sources of art’s livelihood have always been dispersed, somewhat self-serving, and partly non-existent. This means that survival will probably not be a problem, and furthermore that the terms for that survival will be extremely interesting—even transformative. Art has always been made in a ghostly and somewhat treacherous economy built on solidarities and speculations, piracy and ideals: an alternative economy par excellence. As Lawrence Liang writes in his essay in this issue,
The 32 gestural black ink paintings in /Notations/ are all on the same ground, a notepad reproduction of one Monet water lily painting. The reproductive dot pattern of Monet’s image contrasts to the spontaneous ink painting in /Notations/. I purposefully chose Monet’s water lilies as a ground because I believe that his later, large-scale garden paintings are an important reference for contemporary abstraction and immediacy in painting. Both Eastern and Western art history have a vast and important trace of large- scale gestural painting. Although there is a precedent in Renaissance painting for large- scale work, Monet is the first Modernist to create 42’ stretched canvases. Monet’s large water lilies were meant to engulf the viewer in the detail and power of nature, like /Notations/, thirty-two large format prints effect scale in juxtaposition to the intimacy and gesture of their handmade marks.

The works of art showcased in the Rohkunstbau XII exhibition reflect the history of the building as well as the individual memories of the artists. Above and beyond that, they highlight current issues surrounding childhood in our aging society. Rohkunstbau XII is a trip down memory lanea journey which is rewritten each time it is taken, always revealing its relationship to the here and now in new and unexpected ways. childlike impressions, joys and fears, as well as the mechanisms of memory.

This show offers you a group of hopeful ruins, displayed in a classical nineteenth century aristocratic Dutch house.of damaged artworks, a mountain of freshly white sprayed earphones, the Jason mask without a face, the black plexiglass mandala, the silver animated survival cover, the suspended up bird, the celebration-church-bordello, and many more. Once in /The Corridor of Who Knows When/, some are arriving, others are leaving. If you expect nostalgia, be assured that nostalgic images just reiterate an inherited set of cultural expectations. These hopeful ruins might not fulfil that promise.
Today my art is respected mainly because I believe in it. I respected it  
*An Overview: Ihor Holubizky* /Patisserie Duchamp: May I Smoke / Puis-je fumer/ is an installation by artist Christos Dikeakos. The subject matter is smoking, combining original works of art created by Dikeakos and in collaboration with others – drawing, photography and sculpture – with cultural artefacts and documents. The objective is neither to celebrate nor demonize, but to examine the broad social implications of a "habit" that has become a topic of foreboding and the forbidden. At the same time it would be myopic to pretend to erase smoking from history. The presentation follows a museological model, a visual text and planned accompanying publication that weaves together a social and cultural history and expressions through art and popular culture. But it is perhaps better described as a 'theatre of the museum' in which the topic is also a 'story of human behaviour and the human condition'. There must be a scholarly gravitas, yet achieved with humour and wit. Being able to laugh at ourselves is one way of learning. This subject has never been explored in this manner in a gallery or museum exhibition, and to follow, controversy should not be avoided because of timidity.
under: Photography

Bolduc's art re-asserted a strong figure-ground relationship of a hovering main motif articulated in bold impasto colours squeezed and drawn directly from the tube atop a stained background. Bolduc extended the modernist dialogue championed by Jack Bush, Robert Motherwell and Jules Olitski triumphantly showcased first by the David Mirvish Gallery and subsequently Klonaridis Gallery. In so doing, Bolduc became the locus of the evolution of a tendency strongly associated with a generation of Toronto painters referred to variously under the rubric: exotic or eccentric modernism. /Marcus Garvey/, (collection of the Art Gallery of Ontario), is reflective of a career-long obsession with colour, pattern and collage references. For all its modernity, its compositional form harkens to antiquarian appearances gleaned from time spent among libraries of rare, hand-stamped leather book covers and decorated bookplates. His sensitivity to this history prepared him to be the contributor of exquisite illustrations to a number of hand-made books and accompaniments to finely-crafted literary publications.
More than half the landmass of Canada is Treaty Land; Including the including the land which has been ceded or reserved under the terms of the eleven numbered treaties signed between the Government of Canada and many of the First Nations in central Canada. Also covered under numerous earlier, smaller treaties are areas of southern Ontario, Quebec, British Columbia and the Eastern Provinces. Vast areas of Northern Quebec, the North West Territories, British Columbia and all of Newfoundland have never been brought under treaty.

/"Cyborg women weave translucent thought into sturdy cloth and with Arachne still defy the gods." "Nature weaves a digital dream into the text and Philomela has her own web page now." "The Fates still weave with Ada's help on ancient looms and computers . . . ."./ (artist's quotes for an earlier weaving)
Object Black marks on a white surface. The marks have been isolated and meshed, ordered by human intelligence. The viewer reabsorbs the marks. An adjustment of focus is induced to accept the information. The object releases its amorphous tracings of the underworld into the eye of the viewer.
The orchid paintings use a variety of manipulations to achieve their effects. In /Turbulence/, /Flaming Gold/, and /Big Orchid/, a stylus was inserted into the stone patterns to create very individual images. /Chaotic Green/ made use of a small 'afro comb'. Both /Floating Pink/ and /Standing Waves/ were arrived at by use of traditional marbling combs. All of these works combine controlled rendering of the 'main' subject with the organic, fluid process of paper marbling, wherein there is limited control, not unlike the act of gardening described above.

Marman and Borins have also diversified their practice by experimenting with multi-formatted exhibitions of their work. Through the implementation and co-presentation of several artworks simultaneously, they display a form of installation art that echoes the tropes of the curated exhibition. The result of this work has been the production of large sculptures that carry clusters of smaller works formally and thematically linked within a compendium. The outcome of this approach to sculpture is to challenge the uniformity of serial art making.

My modus operandi is to create a visual timeline telling a story, utilizing key moments, composed within an overall unity that combines realistic passages with abstraction. Caesuras of visual information are stacked using unusual perspectival viewpoints and rhythmic passages to guide the viewer's eye through the painting. Simultaneously time-based and aesthetically timeless, the paintings try to condense stories into a unitary experience, yet in a beautiful manner.
This project sampled the genre of the Italian Capriccio (invented landscape). These historical sources are cropped into elliptical canvases, and then tipped, as an attempt to show how strong the viewer's need is to orient to horizontals, or verticals, even in so called nature.
My works examine the body in relation to history, cultural production, nature, and identity through the nexus of the fragment. Redrawn and altered material quoted from diverse historical sources is incorporated into my printed images/objects to form new composites in an exploration of both the ephemerality of the body and our desire to leave a mark: to create, organize, and understand. The work posits the body as artifact and archive, and as a region of the imagination-a territory of uncertainty.

Exploring this theme of communications, I produced the installation /Hesitation/, which was exhibited on "The Main" or boulevard St. Laurent, which is the east-west dividing street of Montreal. It was a series of photographic signs, in the format of the traffic sign, attached to the lamp posts along each side of the street. In this show, there were approximately 20 works, extending for 4 kilometers on this main street in the city. The photographs depicted people, one of which being the artist, engaged in some form of awkward relationship. A patient expecting pain and a doctor who is preoccupied with the task; a white man and a black woman showing interest in each other, but feeling awkward at addressing their feelings; a group of young men threatening another man on the street. All of the characters are depicted having some kind of difficulty in terms of speaking their fear. They are afraid of looking stupid, or of being hurt, and they are not free.
//The lineaments of a plummet-measured face./

With Duchamp's poem "Intramince" (published on the back cover of the 1945 /View/ magazine), tobacco smoke is rough going in but aromatic coming out and perfected when exhaled, a consummation married in the mouth as a mental and physical process. Smoke is also a way of inhaling and exhaling abstract and physical space (of dreams and oblivion) where the addiction/obsession of cigar smoke – from Duchamp, Philip Guston, to Frank Stella or the Mayan priests – produced a psycho awareness, a false state of lightness, and well-being. Smoking also participates in the circulation of desire and ideas.

Faced with the thousands of artistic events presented by Sigma, the CAPC choses to privilege the most experimental practices, the ones that redefined the outlines of their respective disciplines, even if this meant inventing new ones. Experiments which use time and space as materials therefore shatter the frozen frames of categories—theatre leaves area of the stage, bodies loosen, exhibitions become works of art, and art itself requires the public’s participation. Randomness and improvisation are the new mottos which enable music, cinema, literature and the other disciplines mentioned above to move into unknown aesthetic regions.Polke doesn’t really require any introduction. His dot matrices are his landmark trait, but as a whole his work incorporates infintely more. The artist restlessly experiments with motifs, picture surfaces and materials. This fact is amply on display in his current exhibition in the Musem of Contemporary Art Siegen which features works that introduce a new element, the method of lenticular printing. The works’ surfaces are transparent and undulated, causing the infalling light to break. This effect animates the viewer to stay in motion so as to be able to see different images according to the angle from which a picture is viewed. Polke is presenting over 80 works in the Siegen exhibition, 30 of which are new works utilizing the lenticular method and are to be seen for the first time ever.fits into his philosophy, which accords more power to the representation than to what is represented. And yet another technology has proved handy here: Xeroxing. The original can be quickly whisked through, the exposure interrupted or deliberately spoilt. Which results in heads with elongated necks, sloping mountains and wild shadows – a cabinet of deformed curiosities. Scarcely another artist has shown such zest in experimenting with printing, and scarcely another has proved to be as funny as Sigmar Polke.
In the contemporary climate of specialization and high tech spectacle, the work I facilitate and design highlights notions of technological failure, human and electronic fragility, and the marginalized status of the physical body. The work is often exploratory and critical of ubiquitous biotechnological systems, notions of "interactivity", and network systems (socio-political and technological) as they circulate within artistic, scientific, social and cultural architectures of knowledge and modes of production. The intention is often to illuminate and re-examine the unspoken and codified social protocol, social contracts, and voices of control and agency implicit in the use, access to, and design of these technologies.
The process of creating itself is a key element in Janet Logan's work and it makes up an integral part of her research into identity. From the choice of material to the exploration and creating of forms in the studio until the installation of the work in the exhibition space, the whole creative process is imbued with a ludic quality that is a continuation of childhood play. The abstract forms thus created and collected together are the result of a merging of fiction and reality. They stimulate the viewer's imagination and give rise to various emotions, feelings, thoughts and most certainly reminiscences associated with childhood.
The ritual then was to go out with your sample kit to job interviews and become a junior apprentice in an engraving house or an advertising agency. All this time I thought that my father, well known with lots of connections, would get me a job. The bright thing he did (though I didn't think so then) was to tear out three yellow pages listing Commercial Art Houses, hand them to me, and say 'Take your samples, start with "A", and walk.' So I did. Three pages later, at the very bottom, I landed a job with a company called Wookey, Bush and Winter. In the old puritan ethical way, I had learned a lesson. I found myself working with Les Wookey, a marvelous designer, Jack Bush, whom we all know, and Bill Winter, the charming painter of children. /What an opportunity!/ I answered the phone, delivered parcels, and cleaned water bowls every morning. I was at the office before they were, made the coffee according to their wishes, cleaned out the ash trays and got used to saying, 'Good morning, Wookey, Bush and Winter.' I was of no use to them whatsoever except in this capacity. I was incapable of doing anything near their quality of commercial work at that time. When my duties were done, I was supposed to sit and practice.
of which is evenly painted and then silver-plated, will be located in the ICA’s lower gallery. The technique used on the canvases creates expansive reflective surfaces that come alive with the presence of an audience.
In this project the artist invited Alexia in a conversation-action that combines fragmented speech, singing, movement and improvisation, elements that cause new "abstractive" situations in a shifted "other" space-time, with an interactive catalytic character of the release of primal characteristics and behaviors. The work records the triadic projective relationship of intellectual, natural and architectural space of the individual (individual space, emotional space, work space, space of the Museum), the white internal room (white cube) in relation to the space of the dictator/master.
Considering the fact that I was born deaf, my learning process is shaped by American Sign Language interpreters, subtitles on television, written conversations on paper, emails, and text messages. These communication modes have often conveyed, filtered, and limited information, which naturally leads to a loss of content and a delay in communication. Thus, my understanding of reality is filtered, and potentially distorted. This is part of the core of my practice as an artist and I am now taking ownership of sounds after years of speech therapy. Instead of seeking for one’s approval to make "correct" sounds, I perform, vocalize, and/or visually translate them based on my perception.
exhibition is integral to the artwork; artist On Kawara embeds this in his work, just as for the decade of 1968–1979 he recorded his daily movements on maps of the cities he traversed. Marking his movements in red on the city maps attested to the artist’s physical presence, systematically and almost ritually. Japanese artist Rei Naito will continue this contemplative exploration with the artwork /Pillow for the Dead/: organza "pillows for the dead" illustrating our final voyage delicately, ephemerally, recalling the ancestral traditions surrounding the dead.
When media art is not generated by microchips, it grows out of the petri dish, as /AAP/ contributing editor Chin-Chin Yap discovers in the cutting-edge bio-art of *SymbioticA*. The artistic experiments at the Australian "curiosity-based, non-utilitarian" research lab in the University of Western Australia’s Department of Anatomy and Human The invisible rays are described as a "medium" that penetrates objects and is revealed on screens. A floating technical surface acts as the most intimate witness of the otherwise hidden interior. An architecture is established that inverts the classical relationship between inside and outside, an architecture we still live in with our countless screens monitoring endless invisible flows. Architects, historians, and theorists quickly absorbed the new paradigm—developing an entire logic of the invisible in the early decades of the twentieth century that remains largely in place. New medical screens are today creating new forms of architecture as the relationship between inside and outside passes through another twist. New forms of intimacy are emerging. The smoothing of distinctions between humanitarianism and capitalist consumerism is typically regarded—from the perspectives of humanitarianism and capitalism alike—as "progress." As a typical claim asserts, "with significant logistical abilities, massive resources invested in R&D and highly capable personnel, many within the aid community hope that businesses can do for humanitarian aid what Amazon did for the world of retail or what Microsoft and Apple did for personal computing." But the humanitarian history of the housing question reveals that "businesses" do not only facilitate humanitarian aid, but also facilitate some of the conditions that humanitarianism responds to.  
Je réalise des installations de grandes dimensions, souvent éphémères et la plupart du temps in situ. Dans mes installations, le visiteur est invité à faire l'expérience d'un espace fantasmagorique bricolé, factice, ludique, où le banal cherche à devenir motif d'émerveillement. Des effets volontairement racoleurs de sons, de miroirs, de jeux de lumières colorées et d'ombres, de stroboscopes et autres plaisirs pour l'oeil magnifient divers matériaux de pacotille accumulés les uns sur les autres; toutefois, la précarité de l'assemblage, ou encore, le son ou l'éclairage devenu insupportable menace de réduire l'émerveillement en néant, tel un château de cartes. La figure du château, archétype d'une architecture "merveilleuse" dans l'imaginaire de mon enfance, est un motif récurrent dans mon travail, et plus particulièrement le château de cartes. Le château de cartes m'intéresse pour son architectonique mais aussi parce qu'il évoque deux sentiments contradictoires; celui de l'accès à un monde idéal et celui de la conscience d'un monde au bord de sa propre destruction.
When I first began painting nature I was uneasy because I felt that relevant contemporary painting could not include pictures of trees. It definitely could not include imagery that could be associated with the Group of Seven. Many artists and academics alike considered their kind of painting a quaint nationalist movement of the 20s and 30s.

Architecture remains the most tangible way of constructing the social. Yet, the system we call "architecture" is not reducible to the physical, the tactile, the obvious. In the history of avant-garde architecture, immateriality and intangibility carried a promise of liberation, of escape from the heaviness of building, from completion, from gravity or reality. A new contemporary architecture would be built out of pure knowledge—drafted on paper as an idea to be shared, never bogged down by the technicalities of constructing in dimensional space, or even any spatial paradigm altogether. The history of the avant-garde can’t—as Beatriz Colomina has pointed out—be separated from its engagement with media and communication. Building would move at the speed of thought and spirit, superseding calculation, regulation, codes, and existing infrastructure.

I am intrigued with the sensation of being personally diminished when experiencing great spaces. Deserts, mountains, and vast open plains make me feel that some fundamental truth is revealed by this sense of dissolution into these spaces. My landscape paintings are made from memory, not from on-site drawings or photographs. I use memory as a filtering agent to remove nonessential visual elements. When a work is successful, it has a poetry that presents some aspect of my understanding of who I am.

For a park near the new Broncos stadium in Denver, the work PASS THROUGH THE LAND was recently completed. I brought the rough textures and rich colors of the mountains into the urban environment. The massive boulders are set into concentric rings to suggest a labyrinth or maze, an ancient symbol of passage. Natureís forms are translated and ordered. At the entrance to this stone work are five 28 foot high towers with perforated metal silhouettes of aspen trees animated by hundreds of stainless discs hanging in the openings of the mesh. The wind creates wind chimes and a shimmering play of light. Visitors to the park pass beneath this grove and through the stone circles on their way to Invesco At Mile High Stadium.

The construction of new and often private museums in financial centers and free trade zones from Abu Dhabi to Hong Kong seem to point to another function altogether, to a shift in the status of the museum from its conservatorial role in society to one that starts to look increasingly more computational. What are these strange new entities that hoard artworks as financial artifacts and use CAD-designed architecture to advertise a city or state? What do they do and what do they want from us? They are not just vanity enterprises used for laundering money. They are not just playthings for warlords and feudal states. They are not just showrooms for auction houses. Because many are doing the work of traditional museums—collecting, exhibiting, educating. What is new concerns the scale at which they are being built, and the peculiar way they suspend historical consciousness while desperately filling themselves with content.

*João Onofre* has created a simple and universal image: a tiny island that slowly floats along and gets lost on the horizon; a drifting refuge for those who disagree with the turn the world has taken.

Faisal Anwar’s video /As Simple As That?/ deals with this issue of violence from a different perspective. The work was created post-9/11 in Pakistan at a time characterized by the artist as rife with global tension and strained Indian and Pakistani relations. Shot in the city of Islamabad, the capital of Pakistan, at a butcher’s home where people go to procure meat for their family meals, the video documents the killing of a baby goat and uses this killing as a metaphor for what we are doing to each other around the world. The title /As Simple As That? /refers to the fact that things are not so simple, and it directs the viewer not to take what they are about to see as mere sensationalism.
6. The ultraviolet light "reduces" (purifies) the platinum salt to a darker, pure metallic state. A faint outline of the image appears on the paper when exposure is nearly complete. The fully exposed paper is then taken into the laboratory, and a special chemical bath is poured upon it. Development is instantaneous. Then, a series of mild acid baths remove any remaining traces of iron and other extraneous material from the paper. The final image is formed out of submicroscopic crystals of pure platinum metals, embedded in the Since pure platinum, like gold, is so stable and permanent, the platinum print is the most archival of any image made on paper. Silver prints will change visibly in a few years or a lifetime. The platinum print can last for centuries and centuries, as long as the fine paper-and the image will never change.

/Although censorship and self-censorship were, are and always will remain an issue in the showcasing of art, whether in the UAE or elsewhere (or perhaps one should say that overt censorship exposes a show of force by the powers-that-be when the implicit rules of self-censorship fail), it is clearly not the only issue at stake now, several weeks after these events began to unfold./

Techniquement et d'office, je privilégie le grand format, l'acrylique pour sa maniabilité et la figuration pour son aptitude à favoriser la compréhension de mon propos. Toutefois, la lumière demeure indéniablement l'axe principal de ma recherche.
oak sapling that a worker took to Poland, planted, and named after his boss.  

Impressionism has its limitations. The concern about accurate depiction is there, but it must give way to the needs of good 'picture making' and good 'paint pushing'. I want to find a middle ground between realism and abstraction, using no more of either than necessary.
*Ruben Grilo* (b. 1981, Lugo)  /El cuadro y el buzón/ (The Painting and the Letter Box) is the result of research carried out in various places in England and the USA into the figure of Samuel Slater and the origins of American conceptual art in the 1960s. The project has led, moreover, to a number of works in which, with the objective of reconciling research work and artistic work, accentuate the relationships between both contexts and endeavour to reveal a degree of reciprocity while avoiding furnishing a lineal interpretation of the project.
The idea of duty-free art has one major advantage over the nation-state cultural model: duty-free art ought to/have no duty/—no duty to perform, to represent, to teach, to embody value. It should not be indebted to anyone, nor serve a cause or a master, nor be a means to anything. To the extent that the object of critical theory is the mode of governance, or the distribution of power, critical theory addresses this object through cultural forms or products, as manifestations and critiques of power relations. That is, on the one hand cultural productions are symptomatic of these relations, while on the other analytic of them—having the potential of intervention and critique, again with a specific placement and angle, or, if you will, method of intervention and mode of address. Critical writing is thus a sort of double or shadow, whose task is not only to trace the work, but also to respond to it and to separate the symptom and the analysis, as well as to unpack the overlaps, contrasts, mergers, and mutations of these two moments and movements. And this is a radically different task than that of art advising—or that of the aesthetic judgment of yore, for that matter! was so far ahead of his time that, say, his contemporaries did not understand him, but rather because, when it came to positioning himself successfully in art with an enduring place in history, he made several "mistakes." Among other things, despite Péladan’s hard work and the genuinely large influence he enjoyed in his day, he did not do enough, and above all was not sufficiently convincing, to ensure that he would be "right" in art history. He did not persevere long enough in his practice, he was not successful enough in assembling a coherent group of artists, and he was not well connected to the market. Furthermore, he was so extremely pompous and so obviously contradictory that it made it difficult for anyone to take up his cause openly and in earnest. 

Of course, in the field of art as we know it, easy solutions for this tension have never been an issue. On the contrary, the field has always been subsidized by public funding, wealthy patrons, and personal assets precisely on the basis that art surpasses clear and straightforward valuation in economic terms. On the one hand this has made for a strange hybrid economy where a humanist tradition also has its own commodity market, while on the other it has managed to remain a sphere in which a lack of faith in any terms for clear economic validation has somehow managed to remain intact. Even officially in many cases, public and private funding alike would flow to art precisely because art was understood to provide an exception to the geopolitical rule.

And so it goes. I intend to continue with this life, these investigative pleasures, discursive discussions with friends, to make music, to keep looking and to keep painting.

*Primal Series Paintings* These are story paintings that address sexual taboos and uncomfortable subject matter. There are many precedents in other cultures where animals are combined with human forms. The Primal paintings also bring into consideration the nature of reality and individuality. Humans often anthropomorphize animals so we have creatures like 'Peter Rabbit'. My art goes in the opposite direction, looking for the animal in the human psyche. I am interested in how religion has influenced our culture and our ways of interacting with the environment. It causes a kind of blindness to reality.

/*THE CIRCLE OF HISTORY*/ Paintings by Gyula Kalko   	/Things fall apart; the centre cannot hold; Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world, The blood-dimmed tide is loosed, and everywhere The ceremony of innocence is drowned; The best lack all conviction, while the worst Are full of passionate intensity./                 W.B. Yeats, 1939.

First worked out as a series of small oil studies, I found that fields of pixelated colour dabs could combine into a colour field that did some of the things that I was also trying to coax out of my landscape paintings. The last nine years have seen me continuing to experiment with this idea. Some of these paintings have combined multiple images and colour fields. The images are carefully rendered from observation. The colour fields support the objects. Some of the most recent of these paintings have not included rendered images. These canvases are completely non-objective but are accompanied by small paintings of landscapes that are hung in relation to the colour field.
In my studio practice I work with a specific narrative as my theme for a period of one to three years, using texts as diverse as the novels of Kafka, Yiddish folk tales and most recently, Cocteau’s Les Enfants Terribles. Scenes evlove from the dramatic interplay between characters who appear from painting to painting. I often base these characters on my family and friends, intertwining the complexities of their individual developments into that of the story.

Whereas history may be seen either as a lineal or multi-lineal narrative, and whether it is constructed through descriptions of movements, groups, phases or "isms", it is impossible to bypass the need of a historical narrative of a certain nature, and to try to escape our own placement within that history. The understanding of the processes through which we make, interpret, remake and reinterpret history is vital to understand the very process of art making and the ongoing construction of our identity as a society. The Institute of Puerto Rican Culture (ICP) is pleased to announce the opening of its IV Poly/Graphic Triennial: San Juan, Latin America and the Caribbean on October 24, 2015 to March 28, 2016. Gerardo Mosquera, Chief Curator, is joined by Vanessa Hernández Gracia and Alexia Tala. Following the Triennial’s fundamental tenet of exploring an expanded and inclusive notion of the graphic image, this IV edition will explore the displacements of this image and its exit from its traditional supports to the gallery space and to the public realm.

Towards this end I have been investigating new ways of thinking about how I integrate the evocative and narrative aspects of my work, moving toward a more abstract representation of social issues. At the Glenbow Museum archives in Calgary I was invited to research cultural artifacts for their ongoing contemporary exhibition series entitled /Connections to Collections/. An ongoing theme in my work is the burden of history and memory on present consciousness and creating opportunities for its transformation. Utilizing /burden baskets/ from the Glenbow collection in combination with hand-blown glass, audio and other elements, I was able to create a rich sensory environment, resonating in history and individual memory, in which the various elements resounded together in an experiential way for viewers. This installation, /Release/, was also recreated in a second version for the Medicine Hat Museum and Art Gallery using baskets and other European artifacts from their collection.

*_Tess Lea—"From Little Things, Big Things Grow": The Unfurling of Wild Policy_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/%e2%80%9cfrom-little-things-big-things-grow%e2%80%9d-the-unfurling-of-wild-policy/> Tracing (dys)function—how it occurs, and to whom, what, and how it is ascribed—might yield fleeting glimpses of the stealthy means by which systems of slow death occur under liberal beneficence, yet such hard-to-ameliorate, enclosure-refusing life routes also resists neat homilies. This too is a condition of their non-narratability: the requirement to abandon a text without satisfactory end, for morally affirming conclusion is also a misleading tact.
/*Origins*/ I was born in Johannesburg, South Africa in 1958 and lived through the Apartheid era. Because of this my art tends to be socialist. I relocated to Toronto, Canada in 2005.
My interest and purpose was to continue the wit and further the play making of his work as an intimate and consecrated site of procedural inventiveness. I consider his work to be photo-conceptual, and by the late 1960s and early 1970s it was becoming evident that Marcel Duchamp could be considered as a precursor of conceptual art. In addition to the photo collages, I have included related works by or about Duchamp, magazines, editions, ephemera, photographic facsimiles/appropriations, books and correspondence.
Ivan Grubanov (b. 1976 in Belgrade) received education at the Painting Department of the Belgrade Academy of Fine Arts, the Rijksakademie van beeldende kunsten in Amsterdam, Delfina Studios in London, Casa de Velazquez in Madrid and University of Leuven – KU Leuven. Grubanov’s ideas and his work achieve independence over political speech through artistic and critical interpretation of historical memory, and thus evade the unwanted banalization of artistic speech. They negate the concept of the work of art as a closed, static aesthetic object, while maintaining the identity of an autochthonous analytical and critical post-painterly practice of the open system of interpretation.represents six decades of his complex artistic oeuvre and is the most comprehensive survey exhibition to date to be devoted to the sculptor outside of his native Croatia. 
Each film within the eight channels of /The Silver Bridge/ presents another window into the world. The tangible narrative structure uses oblique and at times surreal form to forge connections between scenes, incidents, or the momentary isolation of an image; the blinking of a womans eyes when slowed to the speed of a nature documentary, or wild deer grazing with careless confidence in a forested terrain interrupted by the presence of stark white doors going nowhere, promising nothing. The awkwardness pervading each scene is emblematic of the broader intention of the work; bats, captured in the artificial confines of a zoo terrain crawl across the ground, claws grappling at earth, wings scratching in the undergrowth; the diminishing form of a woman in black crawling along the decayed limbs of an old silver bridge, making slow, uncomfortable progress. This repeated positioning of individual and communal social behaviour through the worlds of animals, birds and humans are the touch-stones for the viewers journey through the work and through Irvines layered and obtuse narrative. As one progresses through the exhibition spaces, the unifying evocation of what it is to return to a place seeps to the surface. By coming home, a self-conscious awareness of exterior perceptions is confronted with an interior knowledge of self, implying that all return is a negotiation with the past – with what has changed and with what apparently remains the same. Like walking through somewhere familiar yet different, one is both at home and a stranger, at ease but also awkward, or estranged.

In 2014, we’re torn between the seductive aspect of coming together and the fear that we are consciously producing evidence that will be used against us. Let’s move away from the binary logic of online/offline, of participation/exodus, and instead design other forms of social interaction and organization together, based on sustainable exchanges, strong ties, and a sensual imagination that allows us to transcend the given cultural formats (from edu-factory formats to Facebook).

/*The Reality Dilemma*/ Western thought is transfixed by absolutes, so things are either true or false but never both simultaneously. The conceptual lexicon is uncomfortable with ambiguity or contradiction.

Having just finished my MFA, I decided that I had to either quit painting or learn how to paint all over again. I was teaching in an art school, trying to figure out why people were so insistent on painting from the nude model. This work was an attempt to take apart historical notions of the female nude and its opposite, the armored warrior.
Boxes as skulls
A DESCRIPTION AND REFLECTION UPON TWO RECENT WORKS/

The artist rejects any attempt to give this drift toward anarchy and chaos any definite direction, to let it culminate in any new order. Socialism collapses. Capitalism triumphs. But the process of entropy goes on. Stilinović now demystifies money as he had earlier demystified party language. After all, money is also merely images, signs among other signs.

The interface between the inner and the outer selves is the 'skin' - the porous membrane through which the body's inner reality rises to the surface, and the external world is absorbed and internalized. The painted or photographic surface, as visual language, is analogous to this dimension of communication from the interior and exterior body.
In my installations, I am interested in how the work is physically apprehended by the viewer to challenge his imagination. In /Solipsism/ and /The Chinese Game / Le jeu chinois/, the visitor enters a space where he is submerged whereas in other installations his only access is from the outside: through portholes (/I lie / Je mens/), through the peephole of a locked door (/The other side of the world / Le bout du monde/) or through a fixed doorway (/A Castle in Spain / Un château en Espagne/) and (/Castles in Spain again / Encore des châteaux en Espagne/). In these installations, everything is not for one's eyes to see and one must use one's imagination to comprehend the work. Even more radical, the project /My life without gravity/ consists of a closed cube whose interior remains physically unattainable. Within are the sounds of fireworks and strobe lighting seen through a constellation of holes in the cube's walls. Close to the cube, a video projects me, climbing a ladder and disappearing in smoke and falling in the void. /Château d'air / Air Castle/ on the other hand, is an assemblage of sixteen closed doors, placed in such a way as to suggest the form of a castle or a tower and which the visitor has no physical access. As in /My life without gravity/, one perceives stroboscopic lights synchronised with the sound of fireworks through a constellation of holes pierced on the surface of the doors. This inaccessible black castle, both magical and menacing, readily suggests Franz Kafka's Castle.

/*The Individual*/ It is the nature of perception that we project what we see rather than just receive information. We visualize and assign properties to objects and situations according to predetermined cultural decisions. For instance, we emphasize the individual in Western Culture, imagining a body separate from surroundings. Quantum Mechanics denies separation. San people experience the spirit world as a manifestation of their reality and do not emphasize individualism. To them the supernatural is real.

To take Farocki’s preference for the instructional seriously is to embark, joyously, upon an internal exile from much of what understands itself as experimental culture. And now that Farocki is gone, it becomes clear to me that his films, videos, television programs, essays, texts, exhibitions, and interviews provide nothing less than an alternative value system that enables you to encounter the mutation of images in the present.

Of course this is by no means a contradiction. Rather, it suggests that we may be witnessing a very sophisticated war of position that is renegotiating the way artists seek to simultaneously instrumentalize and be instrumentalized by hegemonic forces that far surpass them in scale. It is to say: a dictator is funding the exhibition, and I will not participate in the exhibition with my work on this dictator—he belongs to me, and within my work, and I do not belong to him. In terms of military strategy, it can be taken as a flanking or pincer maneuver to surround and contain the thing that might otherwise surround and contain you.
Over the past few years I have turned to the works of artists such as Chardin, Morandi, de Chirico, Magritte, Anselm Keifer, Agnes Martin and Eva Hesse. It is the mood, emotion and intellect of their works that I respond to. Keeping within the spirit of the above-mentioned artists I create works that are evocative and non-moralizing.
*Mur*

Also featured in the exhibition are 30 works on paper made by Pollock during the same period as the black paintings. Made with enamel and ink and watercolor, the works on paper are considered by scholars to be the artist’s most important as a draftsman. The exhibition will also feature five of Pollock’s extant six sculptures, which provide a true three-dimensional experience of his well-known painting approach. Together with the 37 paintings on view, these works immerse audiences in Pollock’s complete oeuvre and shed new light on the experimentation and ingenuity that has become synonymous with his practice. 

While in *TEMPTATIONS*, curated by Edi Muka and Gezim Qendro (Albania), artists including Olafur Eliasson, Phil Collins and Pal Hollender analyzed how taboos correlate with the idea of power and the temptation to violate its confines, in the second episode, TO LOSE WITHOUT BEING A LOSER, Roberto Pinto (Italy), invited artists such as Tania Bruguera, Jota Castro, Maja Bajevic and Stefano Romano, to use their work to reflect on the concept of defeat, not as incapacity to win, but rather as alternative view of the world. DEMOCRACIES, title of the third episode, curated by Zdenka Badovinac (Slovenia), focused on parallel economies, exploring the different new possibilities in the concept of democracy, through artworks and new operations, such as permission to screen the film /THE TAKE/, a documentary on the effects of globalization and their implications, which the artist Apolonia Sustersic invited unemployed workers in Albania to attend free.

Murky, hot color, lush paint handling, and dry, broken surfaces trigger associations with Venetian prototypes without reproducing them. Space is unstable; "foreground" and "background" change places. Figures, gestures, even narratives are implied but not depicted-sometimes, a human presence survives as just a memory.
*Coming soon:*
I empathize with these swans. Fat flying snakes, meandering, labyrinthine momentum that has evolved a proud vertical architecture under the drag of gravity, and an appearance under the imperative gaze of others. These swans, in their proud maturity, are the hollowed out libidinous shells of a vanity, erect in the posture of pride and dignity. They are magnificent dinosaurs, monsters, heroic, tattered, ramshackle, bewildered and aghast. They are disbelieving and incredulous at the tide of ignorance and vanity rising in their wake. They are confronted by the cherubs – tender sensual particles, seed and fruit of the erotic body. They arch their feathers and rise to their full stature, doomed dignity confronted by the insolent self-assurance of the future. They are aghast before the naked cherubs, horrified at the vulgarity of youth, beauty and accomplishment. They are birdbrains. They are stunned, brainless, hollowed out erections addled by subtle termites, threatened and besieged, appearances betrayed by their own interiors, feathered shells out there on their own trying to make a go of it, wondering how many more times they will be obliged to unfold their arthritic peacock tails.

    Interview with Ric Evans by Robert Bowers, "Ric Evans, Mercer Union,     Nov 23­Dec 11, 1983", Vanguard (Spring, 1984).

To accompany the exhibition, *sala rekalde* will publish a book that documents this new production by the artist. The catalogue includes texts by curator Leire Vergara, by philosopher Beatriz Preciado and by independent curator Moritz Küng.

    James D. Campbell, "Concerning Constructive Strategies" from the     catalogue to the exhibition /Abstract Practices/, The Power Plant,     (March 1991).

representative of the Estonian exposition at la Biennale di Venezia.  
"you, who are on the road, must have a code you can live by…"3

As a visual and performance artist, it is always my intention to approach sound by constantly pushing it to a different level of physicality, and despite my complex relationship with Deaf culture, I

The new paintings of 1989-1994 employ western symbols of the divine Child/Nature/Mysticism/Science, interested by current images from journalists, art, pornography and advertising. If these paintings "mean" anything it is in the way the pictures in them act on and resonate within the viewer.

So the artist working under these conditions may discover a certain pleasure in the violent spectacle of annihilation. In the sheer scale of its consequences, she may understand the megalomaniac thrill of having a stake in the architecture of planetary despair. Incapable of modesty, the artist in this situation might only find the means to abandon a bloated humanist positivism for a turbocharged death drive. But we should be careful not to get too excited here. Because in this situation we are not really witnessing the death of humanism so much as the thrill of seeing what it might do in reverse. Which might be a muffled cry for the promises of a classical humanism.

In each of these current projects some aspect of the natural world has been brought to our attention in the form of patterns, textures or the play of wind and light. I am working to create a new vocabulary of image that marries the materials and structure of the built world with the beauty of natural elements and energy.
I would go home early from a hot date for the voluptuous pleasure of thinking these things.
Edited together with Tom Holert, this first of a two-part issue of /e-flux journal/, though determined to focus on shine, surfaces, and light in all their aesthetic peculiarity and contemporary relevance, aims less at adding to the (still very slim) cultural history of the phenomenon than to rendering palpable the cross-sections of power and aesthetics in the material and immaterial discourses of shine—past, present, and future.
These 'abstract’ sections are the dynamic, 'hot’, shifting part of the canvas as contrasted to the 'cool’, more inert quality of the monochromatic, black and white photographic element, and thus they make a figurative effect against the pictorial ground. Other than the fact that they are all rectangular segments 'cut from the whole’, they are limited in number and are clustered together so that they replace the approximate area of the canvas in which the photographic segment is missing. Yet despite the limits that this almost systematic function might seem to place on the spontaneous ges-ture that could be suggested by these painted (actually 'impressed’) elements, they do in fact produce a sensuous and pictorially expressive reciprocity with the work as a whole. The contrasts of colour and tone between the painted ground and the woodblock impression, between the chromatic and textu-ral contrasts of the abstract segments themselves, and in the interplay between their rectangularity and the rectangular forms that shape the architectural features of the photographic portion of the images, characterizes what I would identify as 'painterly’ in the classic sense; that is, as representation primarily concerned with the construction of pictorial space through gestural mark-making.

The exhibition presents six scenarios, each introducing a unique concept that explores cultural trends from an individual as well as a collective point of view, in a local and global perspective.
/We shall not cease from exploration And the end of all our exploring Will be to arrive where we started And know the place for the first time/
Whatever the theoretical presuppositions Evans brings to his practice, the methodological constraints he imposes upon it, or the perceptual and arithmetical rationale he uses in making paintings, the fact remains that his final concern is with the observer approaching the painting simply as an object: a peculiarly loaded object to be sure, but an object nonetheless, and one that yields its secrets only in our experiencing of it.
In becoming an artist, I believe my environment mattered most: it's whom you're emulating and what you're surrounded by. I was surrounded by art. Over the mantelpiece at home I remember a large, exquisite watercolour about three feet high, absolutely naturalistic and beautifully done by my father. It was a portrait of Anna May Wong, the thirties movie star you may remember from /Shanghai Express/. My grandfather was also an artist. He painted public school rooms in Toronto, green on the bottom and cream on the top. On weekends he painted memories of English landscapes, tiny canvases with all the leaves on all the trees and all the wool on the backs of all the sheep lying where every blade of grass was clearly defined. My great grandfather was a Squire in Yorkshire, made fine furniture and painted after the style of Turner. My great uncle's paintings hung in the Royal Academy.
"singular" which so preoccupied our barbarian ancestors in their oracular use of the severed head.

I am looking for ways to speak and to listen. My projects are varied in their material composition (photo installations, multi-media performances), and a recurring theme is the representation of my struggle to speak and to hear the expressions of others. A good exchange can be a transformative experience. It is a simple idea, but not easy to achieve. We put many barriers in front of this simple act, and I like to look at those barriers.
performance
<http://www.e-flux.com/journal/watch-and-learn-bani-khoshnoudi/> *Somewhere, he himself said that it is not what is in a picture, but what lies behind it that counts; that this should not stop us, as it never stopped Farocki, from using and showing images, as if they are the only source of proof we have for certain things.
I knit from the inside out. Though I work quite deliberately, consciously employing both traditional and innovative techniques, my unconscious is the undisputed project manager.

In this issue: ** *_Tom Holert—The Sunshine State_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/the-sunshine-state/> How much sun is needed to maintain or improve psychic and physical health? What are the repercussions of ripples in global energy markets on local labor politics? To what extent is the distribution of wealth related to the distribution of light? Questions of this order are placed in the folds of the narrative and the imagery of Dardenne’s film, and they keep haunting the western-style tale of the heroine searching for a reason among her coworkers and within herself to stay alive in the desert of the solar-industrial real. 
Postscript: quotes from Luis Bunuel in our present age of the prohibition of tobacco, cigarettes and cigars in public spaces:      – People smoke to celebrate a happy moment or to hide a bitter regret'      – Whether you are alone or with friends, it's a joy for all the senses."      – "He smoked until the dying hours of his life, ever faithful to the pleasure that killed him."
the right to stop it, unless it wants to show arrogance and capriciousness.

*Certain statements do not have practical traction in the world. Why don’t we think that removing social welfare is a form of state killing? Especially when the neoliberal state says that its way of "caring" will make life unviable for many. "Life is going to get much worse," we are told, "but just wait and then things will get better." Why do we think of this as care and not as state abuse? How long are we willing to give late-liberal forms of care-as-enervation before we are willing to call them a form of killing?
Renaissance angels entered the paintings in 1982. After returning from the exhibition, /O KromaZone/in West Berlin, I was hospitalized with arthritis. I was unable to walk or use my hands. While recovering in hospital, I made a series of works on paper that introduced the symbol of the spirit penetrating and informing matter, the Angel. These pieces were reproduced in the first issue of /C/ magazine. After my release from hospital I made a series of paintings of angels in bars and cafes of New York, Toronto and Berlin. These pieces were exhibited at the 49th Parallel and the Carmen Lamanna Gallery in 1983, and /Toronto Painting '84/ at the Art Gallery of Ontario.

Additionally, as in the /To Foil Oils/ the format remains essentially the same throughout the Plan for Paintings beginning with No. 24 through to No. 43. The only difference in format between the twelve works on exhibit varies regarding the four short, and four long strips of colour. Positioned in a clock-wise pattern those strips strife and converge with the other elements to create a multiplicity of concatenations of colour. And, those concatenations of colour are enhanced by the specific attributes of the concrete objective material properties of the hues. On that basis, a maximum pitch in the structure of the colour scheme can be realized through the intent to reveal explicitly - by virtue of the technical means - the sensations of the materials in association to the sensations of the colours.
  	1. Platinum prints have to be made from full-sized, perfect photographic negatives, contact printed on specially prepared hand-coated paper. Unlike ordinary silver photography, in which the print is customarily "dodged" and "burned", in platinum printing no manipulation of the image is possible after the negative is made. If the artist fails "to get it right the first time", he will waste tens of hours of labor, and hundreds of dollars in materials, since any faults are ruthlessly revealed.

*_Oxana Timofeeva—_*_*The End of the World: **From Apocalypse to the End of History and Back*_ <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/the-end-of-the-world-from-apocalypse-to-the-end-of-history-and-back> What really eliminates differences is catastrophe: in the waters of the Flood, everyone is equal. I am arguing not for a messianic, but a catastrophic communism, i.e., the end of the world taken in its real-time. In this time, the end of the end of history doesn’t mean that we still have a future, and that it will get better or worse. It will not get worse, it’s already worse. All of these phenomena that are associated with reality and that are supposed to reemerge after the new beginning of history—wars, repression, butchery, and so forth—are really visions of our present zombie apocalypse.
In each canvas of /El Taller/ the abstract painterly elements are composed of an arrangement of only two rectangular sections, or elongated bars, one of which has an impression of a plywood texture in white ink on a white acrylic field, and the other of a plywood impression in black ink on a white acrylic field, forming a syntax of contrasts. The textural fields are monotype impressions taken by rubbing the canvas directly onto inked plywood. These rectangles are not in fact (although they might at first appear to be) superimposed over the photographic ground, but instead the photograph has been physically cut away at this point, revealing the canvas texture, and allowing the abstract sections to make an intrusion into the photographic field so that they project aggressively into the space of the image, charging it with a dynamic potentiality.

In addition to Visitor two more works will be shown. The impressive Study of my Father (2004) shows alternate images of the well-trained body of his father and photographs of demonstrations and buildings torn down by bombardments. The artist thus confronts his own origin. The video work Beauty of Believing (2005) has been commissioned by Stroom Den Haag; the temporary architecture of a stage, the carrier of either political ideologies or meaningless entertainment, forms the scenery for a meeting where commemoration and collective oblivion seem to coincide.
  	/WINDOWS ON THE WATER/   	       "It is like trying to paint a soul."   	          -- Ruskin, "Of Truth of Water"
Since 1994, the Fundación Botín’s Visual Arts Grant programme has accommodated 168 artists from around the world, many of who have now made prominent names for themselves in the field. The aim of the This edition of /Itinerarios/ explores the notion of the art piece as an "interface" or a medium that enables the user to visualise a process. For decades, artists have been questioning the idea of the art piece as a product, beyond its exhibition in different venues. They toy with the notion that perhaps the most important aspect of any artistic process resides in the different phases of research and production, as opposed to the traditional concept of the finished work of art that is ready to be received and consumed. 
Our understanding and appreciation of history (be it national, personal, or universal) as artists, curators, critics and art viewing audience, is complex and critical in our process of relating to the art of our time. It is this understanding that informs a wide range of attitudes about art and also influences art policy, economics, social and political thought.

When I was little, about three years old, I lived in the Pall Mall apartments on Yonge Street, in what would now be considered an Art Deco building with its curved corners and rounded windows. My father, Gordon Wesley Rayner, worked as a commercial artist, so there were lots of art supplies around; big pads of paper, pastels, and commercial artists' tempera paints, not the junk they made us use in school. Because of this I got a sense of the quality of good materials. It wasn't so much 'Gordon, you're a bad boy, go stand in the corner,' or 'Go to your room;' it was more a matter of 'Go somewhere and paint a picture.'

technologies as a fundamental tool for the visibilisation and normalisation of those communities in the globalised world.
In this exploration the issue of identity is seen as an ongoing dialogue between the interior and the exterior, the private and the public, the imagined and the real, the poetic and the profane. Sited within languages of visual communication (paint, photography, and installation) this work intends to give expression to these forces in an effort to traverse the space between the interior and exterior projections of the body.
The power of restructuring inherent in the process of deconstructing the past, the curator believes, is enormous and irresistible and is seen almost more as a taboo that should be resisted and one we should oppose. *GO INSIDE*, emphasizing the connections between manifestations of the present both with history and with local conditions, comprises sculpture, installations, projections and sound projects.

Each painting has its own innate practical logic that develops through a series of yes-no decisions. I lay down a ground colour. Will it be opaque? Yes? No? OK, transparent in parts then. Yes. And then it's one mark at a time. And when I am truly in attendance (which is the state I strive for at all times) I load the brush and look for the mark on the canvas. There. And there. Not there. There. Yes. Yes. No. Each mark has a reason to be there.
My father used to work at home in the evenings. There was a tilt drawing table in the kitchen. It was as much a part of the furniture as the chesterfield suite that he designed. In fact, my father designed much of the furniture in the apartment.
It was during this time that I began to do more work up north in Charlie's cabin, an isolated hunt camp, once owned by Charlie Clifton. His father bought the land in the twenties after the loggers were done with it. They took out all the virgin growth, the giant trees, but then it was growing again. I first went there with my mother and stepfather when I was between the ages of seven and ten years old, and the place hasn't changed a bit. There's an almost impenetrable three-mile road; you can't get a car in very often, it's that muddy and wrecked. I had to get a case of beer, a block of ice, a bag of groceries and a lady on the back of my motorcycle and get in there. That's another reason why it's virtually untouched. Unfortunately, there are more and more canoe trips coming down the river and the cabins are being broken in to.

Working with the union movement and communities has other implications. It begins to address the division of labour between wage work and creative work by demystifying the construction of each and pointing to similar social/economic constraints. It also begins to articulate a cultural politic around the democratization of access to cultural resources.
  Although eight months into the global economic crisis, artists, curators and art lovers from every corner of the globe are about leave some of their troubles behind and fly to Venice to look at the world’s latest show—whose works have evolved from socialist realism, /thangkha/ and traditional Chinese painting to interpreting the world through popular culture, mass media and the printed word after he moved to London.

*_Jonas Staal—To Make a World, Part II_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/to-make-a-world-part-ii-the-art-of-creating-a-state> We are thus dealing with two fundamentally conflicting states performing themselves: the recognized state of Mali, embedded, through the French,

Painting
In the summer of 1989, Francis Fukuyama published his infamous essay declaring the global triumph of free-market liberal democracy over communism as the end of ideology as such. Not only that, but he also claimed the world was on the cusp of realizing what Fukuyama’s mentor Alexandre Kojève called the "universal homogenous state," which would be the climax of a particular Western idealist tradition stretching back to Hegel. It would be the endpoint of a human consciousness based in accumulative historical progress that also grounded the thinking of Marx himself, who pegged his own philosophy to a conception of time and human advancement as a constant moving towards a projected endpoint. But seriously, regardless of whether this endpoint has been reached, how advanced do you really feel? How many artworks have you seen in recent years that even struck you as being relevant as art? And the insane proliferation of regressive ultranationalist and ethnic or sectarian violence hardly points to historical progress either. This phenomenon is spreading nearly everywhere, from the EU parliament elections, to India, Iraq, Hungary, Russia, Japan, and so forth. The list is endless.

When I arrived in Canada in the early 80s, the war in El Salvador was all over the news, and I became aware of another aspect of death, one that was sinister and scary. For even though death was in El Salvador for everyone to see, the Salvadoran media would never report on it. It merely carried on with its mundane procession of American sitcoms, cartoons, spaghetti westerns and commercials for toothpaste and laundry soap. To me, the images of war and carnage that I saw in the Canadian media were shocking. Strangely, the people around me were unaffected by it. Death had become yet another image to be processed along with millions of other images in advertisements, television shows and print media. This dichotomy fascinated me: the cold lifelessness of a corpse versus the culturally codified, abstract concept of death as seen in the media and popular culture.

The images for my weavings were created in 'Photoshop' from various sources, including scans from real plants and books, digital photographs and images from websites. Then, the colours were reduced and translated into weave structures, using 'JacqCAD' or 'Pointcarr�' software (industrial Jacquard weaving softwares). The resulting file, containing only black and white information was then uploaded to a computerized Jacquard loom in Montreal at the Centre de Textile Contemporain de Montreal, where I wove initial tests and pieces by hand. Some pieces were also woven by a technician, from files I sent via the Internet.
An important part of this shift is a change in the status of cultural production in general. Basically, art can no longer be taken to be an automatically good thing. If artworks have for over a century pointed to transformations in political or social consciousness, many artists are now coming to terms with the degree to which artworks are already functionalized as instruments of blunt social and political realities. While these realities might be depressing to idealistic types, or confusing to connoisseurial contemplative types, it would be a shame to miss what a profound reformatting of time we are currently experiencing when the engine of historical progress that defined the modern tradition slows down and bifurcates into the endless mirroring and redistribution of the present time. Technology turns naturalistic and advanced materialist accounts read global swarms of waste products for legible signs, for points where planetary-scale desires start to look structural or infrastructure-ish. The real discovery in all this may in fact be in a slow and relentless unraveling of what a sham the modern tradition may have been the whole time as an era profoundly overstuffed with heroic being boycotted. In many cases the same artists withdrawing their participation are actually extremely interested in the bloodstained funder, the weapons manufacturer, the moral police, or the draconian state policies, which they stand together with other artists to oppose.
The videos and performances render my loaded gestures the primary focus. They depict me testing the limits of my subjectivity by pushing gum in and out of my mouth, or digging in to my belly button as a futile quest for my essence. This work employs my bodily curves, orifices and excretions to investigate and represent my subjectivity in relation to sexuality, love, comfort and abuse. The theatre of confessions at the centre of my work constructs an illusion of intimacy with myself and invites you to examine my vulnerabilities and obsessions.

HAMMER ORANGES APPLE
Some of the narrative works come in the form of installations taking a critical look at contemporary society: Paul Chan’s paradise veers into the apocalyptic, while Kota Ezawa turns a TV program virtual by stylising it with pop flat tints. The more minimalist Mario Garcia Torres animates a conceptual statement.

Gradually the relations between the figures I made became freer and more subtle, and now I see my works as groups of objects relating to each other. Although ultimately each can and does stand alone, the figures can be grouped in various ways and fashions, and each time the tension of their relations makes for a different formal arrangement. For this reason the figures are placed in the ground the way people would place themselves in the street to talk to each other. And this is why they grow from a single point--a minimum base of immobility which suggests an always possible change. In my most recent work these relations become clearer and more intimate. Now the single work has its own complex of parts, each of which is similar, yet different from the others. But there is still the feeling with which I began-the drama of one among many. The look of my figures is abstract, and to the spectator they may not appear to be figures at all. They are the expression, in abstract terms, of emotions and states of awareness. Eighteenth-century painters made "conversation pieces"; my sculptures might be called "confrontation pieces." Louise Bourgeois, 1954 SOURCE: Reading Abstract Expressionism: Context and Critique, Ellen G. Landau, ed., New Haven and London: Yale University Press, 2005, 180f. Originally published in Design Quarterly, no. 30 (1954), 18. The Anti-artist-statement Statement 2010--Uncategorized USA Hyperallergic Iris Jaffe /I hate artist statements. Really, I do./ /As an artist, they are almost always awkward and painful to write, and as a viewer they are similarly painful and uninformative to read./ /I also don’t know who decided that artists should be responsible for writing their own "artist statement." Maybe it was an understaffed gallery in the 1980s, or a control freak think-inside-my-box-or-get-out MFA program director, but regardless of how this standardized practice came to be, the artist’s statement as professional prerequisite (at least for artists who have yet to be validated by the established art world) has long overstayed its welcome. And I don’t think a new one should be required in its place.
I like the traditional format of doing watercolour sketches first, then doing an elaborated version later. This allows me to explore memory and imagination fully as it relates to the place, allows me to elaborate, simplify and anamorphisize as needed. The distortions caused by misperceptions are just as important as the raw data that one could collect by photography. Strangely enough, the finished painting feels more real than the on the spot product.
The Artist represents a robot woman sitting and absorbed in her thoughts; she's observed by her own eyes appearing through the sinuous movement of her tail. The Lady sits confused and tired, like taking a rest from a fast and aggressive society which doesn't give time to focus on herself.
Mon travail artistique porte essentiellement sur les séries. Lors de stages au Banff Centre for the Arts à la fin des années 1980, j'ai découvert la 'Generation X' et ai poursuivi ce thème pendant d'une décennie. J'ai trouvé ces jeunes conscientisés et, comme moi, préoccupés par les problèmes écologiques et les choix politiques. Leur questionnement a vite rejoint mon intérêt social et m'a amenée à ma recherche actuelle sur écologie.
Between 1954 and 1958 Tony Urquhart was trained at the Albright Art School, a division of the fine art department of the State University of New York at Buffalo, and at Yale University. In 1960 he became the University of Western Ontario's first artist-in-residence, after which he taught in the art department, before moving on to the University of Waterloo. He became full professor of Fine Art there in 1972, teaching drawing and painting as well as serving periodically as the head of the department. His studio and home are in nearby Wellesley where he lives with his poet/novelist wife, Jane.
_*Elizabeth A. Povinelli—**Holding Up the World, Part II: Time/Bank, Effort/Embankments*_ <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/holding-up-the-world-part-ii-timebank-effortembankments/> In other words, those for whom no effort has been invested are then held accountable for not having the conditions for making the right kind of effort—the kind of effort that would eventuate a kind of event: the new, amazing, world-transformative concept-activity. How do we think about various explicitly aestheticized forms and genres of concept-activity that at once analyze and make worlds in which these efforts of attentive endurance are formed, thickened, and extended? And where and with whom?
Mankind appears to be no more in control of its destiny today, than at any other time in the history of civilization. There is an element of the 'shock of recognition' in the contemporary relevance found in images throughout the history of art, which offers a vast array of evidence that human nature has not changed at all. Hunger for dominance and power, insatiable greed, violence and exploitation, were all subjects that the Old Masters dealt with over and over again. This familiarity is part of the underlying power through which their images continue to speak to us on a universal level.
The camera has been tucked away, hidden under a table. The coffin dominates the composition. The picture plane is presented as a symmetrical square that is surrounded by larger black vertical borders on either side, giving the composition a claustrophobic appearance, as if the moving image itself is contained within a box. Schewe manipulates the speed of the footage so that the movement of the mourners alternates between slow and regular motion. At times, the image stops in a freeze frame, perhaps as a way of pointing out the brevity of our time on earth. There are no young people in the video; the mourners are nearly all older. As the mourners move closer to the camera, their legs obscure the composition, and the viewer becomes aware of the intrusive nature of the video. None of the mourners know that they are being recorded, so the camera lens breaches a highly intimate and personal and vulnerable moment.

/While one could argue the impossibility of adequately representing institutional aims in a paragraph or two, this does not mean prospectuses cannot be read as being symptomatic of the transformations art is likely to undergo in entering the university context. Accordingly, one could infer a positivist slant in their formulation of what constitutes an artistic PhD; revealing an attitude proximate to other disciplines based on the incremental accumulation of knowledge./

This event is the 27th installment of "Hitting Walls/,"/ an iterative project started by Wing in 2008 that consists of works made in a variety of media and forms—large-format photographs, appropriated internet material, experimental videos, sound sculptures, installations, performances, participatory events, and written texts. All of the works engage ball-wall sports, tracing new arcs through their long, globalized histories and advocating embodied, material ways of describing the world through bounce, rebound, and ricochet.

In my own small world of painting I myself have learned from the canvas that emergence and disappearance--twin phenomena of time--are ambivalent, that one implies the other and that the state or matrix within which they co-exist dissolves the normal sense of time, producing a characteristic stillness, characteristic of the art of painting.

Much of my work has been and continues to be devoted to social commentary. In 1983 I exhibited a series of paintings of angels in downtown Toronto and West Berlin clubs, at the 49th Parallel, New York, curated by the late Carmen Lamanna. It was titled /Commentary '92-'93/, and included Joanne Tod, John Brown and Marc Deguerre. I continued this work seen at the /Toronto Painting '84/ exhibition at the Art Gallery of Ontario. The most recent exhibition in this vein was titled /Bambino Miracolo /in collaboration with Paul Petro Comtemporary Art, Toronto, May '95.
This push pull of beauty, cliché, comfort and contradiction is active in much of my recent work. The previous exhibition /Road trip Diary/Journal de route/ played with the familiar aesthetic of postcards and family photographs and the experience of tourism and family holidays.

After the war, platinum was again available-but it was now more expensive than gold. And prepared papers were no longer manufactured. So everything had to be done by hand using the finest materials, with infinite patience and consummate skill. Platinum prints became the special, "private reserve" of the masters.

The work thus far has used the frame of the museum to propose a secret history of modernity, and in the process, point to stereotypes of difference, which are hidden in plain sight. I have found the histories of surrealism and minimalism to be useful in the rearranging of received ideas. The objects I make are placed in the canon of modernist art, in hopes of making visible what is overlooked in the historicizing of the artist. This project has always been grounded in pleasure and aesthetics.
Vezzolis exhibition in Leipzig was planned in conscious view of the concurrent show Geehow glamorous Andy Warhol: Stardom and Theatricality, and presents embroidered portraits of stars that refer explicitly or more generally to Warhols world. For Vezzoli, Warhol, with his almost obsessive fascination for stardom and glamour, is prototypic of a means of dealing with and instrumenting a star myth. Vezzoli realised a series of portraits especially for this exhibition in collaboration with New York star photographer Francesco Scavullo.than multiple-wall courts, easier to play on, and more accommodating of spectators, one-wall handball courts continue to provide a free and democratic venue for summer sports in the city.
Common to all of the new paintings is their exaggerated sense of doubleness, twoness, of the residual symmetry that appears to have existed once and then been dislocated, perhaps the function of the renegade action of the painter's taste upon the givens of geometry. Gary Micheal Dault, "Focus on Ric Evans", Canadian Art (Spring 1989).
The relation between participants and the event is the starting point for my investigation into the production of knowledge, the status of the physical body, technology and apparatuses of power. I incorporate various media including video, networked webcams, interactive websites, sound installation, text and performative strategies to design participatory events and actions. Often, the work is collaboratory, and created through a network and team of artists, computer programmers, technicians, event coordinators, and various invited and incidental participants. This network and mode of creation is as integral to the form and content of work, as is the media format used to deliver the event.
Marman and Borins are known for their ability to creatively produce refined multimedia installations that are well-crafted, intricate and large scale. They have a diverse vocabulary that employs industrial and non-traditional materials and they are known and respected for their innovative approaches to sculpture.
During my early to mid-twenties, while shedding the de Kooning influence, I started to spend more time up in the Magnetawan district near Parry Sound. I came to the realization that for the last decade I'd been reacting against the small oil-on-masonite paintings of barns, bush, ponds, rivers, and streams that I'd done with my father in the early days. I re-examined the significance of the northern landscape, and realized that there was a subject there for me. It had been in front of me all this time and was yet another means of getting away from the self-consciously urban paintings that the Abstract Expressionists were doing. Franz Kline was inspired by the Brooklyn Bridge, and de Kooning was inspired by the peeling green and pink wallpaper of the old buildings on Tenth Street in Manhattan. Mark Rothko, the more mystical of the group, was still urban in substance.

/Notations/ is also about the cultural, philosophical and psychological bias revealed in the immediacy of drawing. While working on /Notations/, I was researching African Kuba cloth. They are beautiful textiles that reveal as much about African culture as they do about the provocative and arbitrary choices of the marker. The implied mathematical structures of weaving are secondary to the Kuba artist’s aesthetic innovations in pattern. When the maker’s of Kuba cloth divert from predictable patterns they reveal and immediacy in weaving. The images in /Notations/ are square in homage to the square Kuba cloths that I studied.

In fact, contemporary globalization is the direct opposite of the modern ideal of internationalism and universality. The world of globalization is not a world of international solidarity or shared cultural values. Nor is globalization the realm of the anonymous "crowd mind" as it was celebrated by postmodernism. Rather, it is the world of the global competition of everybody against everybody. This competition pushes the subject who participates in it to mobilize his or her own human capital. And human capital, as described, for example, by Michel Foucault, is primarily the cultural heritage that is mediated by the family and milieu in which an individual grows up.
As curator of the McIntosh Gallery at Waterloo, Urquhart was responsible for the initial showings of Greg Curnoe, Walter Redinger, Ed Zelenak and John B. Boyle.
Tate Liverpool’s summer 2015 season presents three artists whose practices interrogate the relationship between context and form, balancing between abstraction and codified signs. Reflecting different eras and locations, from perspectives both East and West, the season examines artistic, social and cultural developments occurring in the post-war period.  his life seeking to justify its implications. Fearing creative stagnation, he also sought to reconfigure the celebrated abstract expressionist style of painting he had pioneered. /Jackson Pollock: Blind Spots/ explores these developments, tracing the departure, in 1951, from his famed drip technique. Beginning with works made during the classic drip period, the exhibition explores this much-debated transition, which resulted in a period in which Pollock would produce works that came to be known as black pourings, or black paintings. Figurative, near calligraphic and rendered almost exclusively in black, art historian Michael Fried believed them to be of "virtually limitless potential." Revealing the "blind spots" within an extensive and expansive practice, the exhibition juxtaposes key phases of Pollock’s career, and includes lesser-known works—spanning drawing, printmaking and sculpture—to provide new insights into this pivotal figure’s contribution to and lasting effect on modern and contemporary art. 
I am currently designing a childrenís play area/artwork for the new Toronto airport where I have created a maze made of nylon scrim on which images of clouds have been printed. The rectangular volume is very much man-made but the translucent layers of cloud image is natureís beauty translated. At the heart of the maze is a central area where a fog machine has created a real cloud in which the children can play.

Yet the field of art is not set up to deal with these administrative challenges, for it refuses to offer a definitive answer to the question of what it is actually doing: the question "What is art?" must be left open. The more important and interesting question then concerns not the prudishness of this refusal, but the fact that the most useful answers are always provided in the negative. These are the answers that account for the fact that art education is, in fact, a fundamental paradox; almost a contradiction in terms. For how can we even begin to think about teaching something that, on a basic level, cannot be taught? How to form the audacity to make moves that have not been already sanctioned, and within spaces where they may not be acceptable? Fostering this audacity is less a structural concern; of how to deal with a given space, of how to access a history or a network of relations, of how to make work visible, and so forth—and more a question of identifying the kind of thinking that can surpass structures and institutionalization altogether. We might call this artistic thinking.
Peralta Ramos’s egg shares the room with German filmmaker Lutz Mommatz’s film, Markeneier (1967); Argentinean artist Eduardo Navarro’s travelogue to the core of a volcano, and works by Polish painter Agnieszka Brzezanska. Very little documentation remains of the piece Peralta Ramos created as his contribution to the final Instituto Torcuato di Tella show in 1965. The few black-and-white photographs that exist show the large egg alone with its maker on a thin plinth on the gallery floor. There are some dark areas in the plaster; the piece was not entirely dry at the time of the show. Surviving friends who saw the piece recall that the work was made in such a hurry that it broke immediately after the jury declared it the winner of that year’s Di Tella Art Prize. A relative of Peralta Ramos similarly remembers that the artist miscalculated the tension between the metal structure and the plaster skin, and the piece imploded immediately after the award ceremony. Yet there is also a picture that shows Peralta Ramos destroying the piece himself. Either way, the work was too large to be moved as it was made inside the gallery space, and was always fated for destruction.

If one looks more closely, it is easy to see that both liberal and Putinist-conservative understandings of the analogy between contemporary Russia and the USSR are mirror images of each other. *I’m not a strong believer in art departments or art schools. Maybe Emory’s example is a good moment to examine their relevance. It’s not clear yet if Emory’s decision foreshadows the future of academia in the US, or if it’s just a passing fad. Either way, these developments at Emory raise crucial questions: What function do art schools fulfill? Do we really need them? 

I began working from nature on site in 1987. The first exhibition if this work was in 1988 in a solo show at the Carmen Lamanna Gallery, Toronto. My most recent outdoor work was exhibited in October, 1995 at the Justina Barnicke Gallery, Hart House, University of Toronto.

Any object that I create could be considered a fossil. While making these works, the process of painting itself became a passageway to thought. Rendering a seamless surface from a flurry of confetti seemed to be appropriate for what I was doing. Each stroke of paint corresponded to my presence. I always felt that colour is subjective and can be applied almost randomly. Burying my renderings with layers of paint, I allude to the granular quality of the electronic media that I work with. The interface with the processor and network also made me realise that images need not be limited by edges.

Indeed, it is the particular materiality of declarative shininess that we now recognize as a clear sign of paradox, as it is so often used to mediate decay and divert attention away from oncoming collapse. And as we now start to recognize how lighting effects constitute a primary function of what can only exist through mechanisms and metaphorologies of visibility, recognition, refraction, and dissemination, we might start to ask whether there is another side to shine altogether. Does shine not also serve a core planetary function of giving life to our planet, through the solar capital of the sun? We cannot afford to be idealistic here, as the sun’s light and heat do not always disclose and reveal. They cannot be geo-engineered through cool roofings at will, since they’re equally cruel and unstable. The sun’s radiance also subtracts life—it produces famine, drought, and night.

Around this time Barry Kernerman opened the Gallery of Contemporary Art, and came to my studio. He was looking for young blood; I was very nervous. He said, 'Those great big women you are painting are de Koonings.' I said, 'How did you know?' By this time, however, I'd already started to edge away from this overwhelming influence and consciously ask myself who I was, what were my particular interests. Instead of painting large angry women, what about still life? What about the north? The land? Where's your sense of humour?

On the back page: 'Das Ding,’ artist and writer *Brian O’Doherty* chooses The Sedan Chair as a special object of significance from his working and living environment.
In /Natural History Paintings/ I turn my attention to the natural world. Working from sources such as botany textbooks, /The Golden Book Encyclopedia/, /The Life Nature Library/, and /National Geographic/, I reconfigure knowledge based on empirical evidence. In this new order of things, associations are formed through visual perception. These paintings are meant to be pondered, much like naturalists would contemplate specimens in the field.
In his essay for the 2006 exhibition /Six Feet Under / Autopsy of Our Relationship to the Dead/, Switzerland curator Bernhard Fibicher speaks of two ways in which contemporary art deals with the subject of death: One is to reclaim rituals concerning death (which have hitherto been the realm of religion and more recently been picked up by the funeral home industry and the media) and to reinterpret, recombine and restage these rituals using the idioms of contemporary art. The other approach is to bring the corpse back to the fore in order to shock the audience with a visceral representation of death. To these two tendencies, a third can be added: the humorous sublimation of death, wherein death is turned into subject matter for comedy.
The theme of death is experiencing a renewed vogue in popular culture. Television shows like /Six Feet Under/ and /Dead Like Me /enjoy a great deal of popularity in the Americas as well as in Europe. /CSI/ and /The First 48/ are highly popular reality TV shows (the latter featuring real corpses and real police detectives) that follow detectives as they find corpses in abandoned lots or blood-drenched apartments and process clues to solve the crime.
Selective Inbreeding, Turpentine Creek Wildlife Refuge and Foundation Eureka Springs, Arkansas
Elevée dans un endroit bucolique, je conserve de mon enfance des souvenirs d'une nature vierge et magnifique, qui me montrent par relation le bouleversement que le pseudo progrès a fait subir à la planète. Ces parcelles de mémoire m'incitent quelquefois à montrer deux versions d'un même paysage, l'une, celle de mes souvenirs, et l'autre, marquée par le temps, meurtrie parfois irrémédiablement. C'est le cas pour le tableau /Écologie/Désertification, séq. IV/, rappelant la dureté de la terre craquelée et, en opposition, /Écologie/Désertification, séq. V/, offrant la douceur et la poésie d'un champ de blé.

Via the active participation of individuals, institutions, non-governmental organisations and other actors within the local and international artistic, cultural and activist scene, the 52nd October Salon will provide a lively place for the exchanging of knowledge and a forum for dealing with issues pertaining to the complex positions of both the individual and the collective. The complex relations between societies, understanding, observance and protection of universal human values, personal responsibility—all of these are necessary elements for re-examinating the political part of our lives. *Galit Eilat* (IL/NL) is a writer, theorist, curator and one of the founders of the Israeli Centre for Digital Art, Holon. She is one of the editors-in-chief of /Maraav/, an Internet magazine for art and culture, and is currently working as a research curator at the Van Abbemuseum in Eindhoven (NL). Her projects often deal with the political situation in the Middle East, the themes of activism, (responsibility) and political imagination.

My friend Coughtry once said he continued to make art because there wasn't anything better to do. When you think about it, it's a profound statement. Painting is a remarkable unending adventure, full of risk and commitment. The joy is, there will always be new ways to bring home old truths, other ways to rediscover your eyes.

The original thought, now dead
Basically realized with instinctive and creative approach, the Artist intends to vent all her concerns and insecurities giving birth to an original Painting where the contrast between the colors and the symbolism of letters and numbers shapes an astonished woman looking for herself into an unknown dimension. Its deep intensity sounds like the solo of a vibrant electric guitar: the dynamic alternation of the colors let ideally perceive the reproduction of notes and rythm of a Rock soundtrack.

I find the further away from me a subject is, the less connection and interest I have in it. My satisfaction remains in making 'a mountain out of a molehill'. To me, the smaller a subject is the more monumental it seems. I seldom leave my 160 hectare farm in Bruce county to sketch. It's all here - I'm an extreme regionalist.
writers of the same post-cultural revolution generation gather in a provincial hotel to discuss at length (defying both the fast-paced temporality of our time and every convention on the viewer’s attention span in mainstream cinema) their views on the place of poetics in contemporary China. The intellectuals take their time to visit various issues connected to China’s massive transformation over the last decades, with all its implications for history and the individual, for society and for art, from the most obvious to the most obscure. But what could have been a self-serving illustration of an exercise in artistic withdrawal is unsettled by the unexpected introduction of fiction and the personal in the detached, documentary style of the piece. In a different manner, Philippe Grandrieux’s portrait of Japanese filmmaker and revolutionary Masao Adachi (the source of the exhibition’s name) is centered around the exploration of Adachi’s inner self and avoids thus to be an exercise of melancholy on the ruins of the international left. Active in Japan’s avant-garde film scene of the 1960s and a member of the Japanese Red Army, Masao Adachi provides a deeply moving introspection of a life lived mostly outside mainstream society (he was exiled in Lebanon for more than two decades) and with firm beliefs on art’s possibilities. The decision to not enter the production logics of the art system is to be read in Mladen Stilinović’s 1993 manifesto "The Praise of Laziness." His 'laziness’ (augmented by the images of him sleeping in the 1978 piece Artist at work) is in fact an active process of critical statements about art and the self-perpetuating bureaucracy around it, both under the socialist and the capitalist systems. Patrizio di Massimo’s series of portraits of various characters, ranging in style from a fantastical realist painting to lush abstract velvet curtains bring to the foreground of the exhibition artistic subjectivity as a dominant specter in the crafting of artistic vocabularies. Desire (inconspicuous in the prudish panorama of today’s art) insinuates itself at every fold in the piece and completes the exhibition’s narrative. /It May Be That Beauty Has Strengthened Our Resolve /is curated by Cosmin Costinas. consisting of 16-feet-tall pipe, a pump, and a basin. In each installation, a fluid is circulating continuously. The fluids, including red wine, liquid soap, olive oil, ink, and coffee, drop in one massive jet from the pipe’s opening into the basin; given the extreme total height of the installation, they drop straight down as much as ten feet. The structure as a whole, then, is a rather impressive spatial installation, radiating massive power. Pivi has a reputation for realizing large-scale projects that highlight absurd aspects of our everyday world, confronting the viewer with unanticipated and spectacular situations. Her works place well-known objects in unusual contexts, imparting to them a modified meaning and function, thus exhibiting cultural and social conventions. Paola Pivi realizes conceptions and ideas of structures the viewer would not ordinarily get to see. The spectacular is here balanced with a certain Romantic notion of an inversion of all things. During the past few years, Pivi has been represented at important international group shows such as the 1999 and 2003 Venice biennials. In early 2007, Paola Pivi first presented her work in the German-speaking world with a major solo exhibition at Kunsthalle Basel.
Her hyper-aesthetic collages quickly made Wangechi Mutu one of the most interesting figures on the young American scene. Matthew Evans met her in New York.

In my paintings, the big change came after that Albright-Knox show. The Painters Eleven exhibition prior to that had caused a major alteration in my work from natural imagery to abstraction, and the confirmation of those ideas became resolved through the Albright-Knox abstract expressionist show, trips to New York City, and then much more study through reproductions. We were the art magazine fans of the world; we all had subscriptions to /Art News/. We read every page and discussed it all. De Kooning was my favourite artist at the time. Before I had reached this stage both /Time/ and /Life/ magazines came out with spreads on Jackson Pollock. I was infuriated. I was certain this wasn't art. I was ready to picket with a banner in front of The Museum of Modern Art saying 'You're being fooled,' but I was intelligent enough to realize that if I was going to fight against this aberration I had to know my facts, accumulate ammunition. So I started really to study it, read about it, went to Buffalo to see it. Within one year, I was a complete convert. I had become the number one de Kooning fan in the world not realizing there were only about 50,000 artists in the U.S. doing second-string de Koonings. I even did a series of paintings that were of women grinning with big teeth. What really happened, of course, was that by emulating so literally the de Kooning techniques I learned an enormous amount in a very short time. But I was just realizing that there wasn't enough /Rayner/ in my work. The only difference was that I had left-handed instead of right-handed brush strokes. So, I consciously tried to break with the de Kooning influence while trying to maintain the essence of everything I'd learned. One way to break was to look more deeply and thoroughly into other artists' work. My paintings started to get gentler.
My GPS patterns combine a scientific approach of collecting data and representing it as scientific evidence and I have been collecting all my GPS data now since July 2005. A track is defined as an event and I might have several tracks a say if I go for a walk, a drive and a bus ride. Some lines are combined and for others I separate them into different tracks for a drive + a walk at the end of it. This is where I can control that the viewer will not necessarily know everything I do or when I do it and I can shape the visual elements. Different modes of locomotion come with different scales, speeds, rhythms and shapes. On a recent trip in Italy I drove over a mountain pass with winding hairline turns only to arrive at a resort town hopelessly lost, driving around blocks and one-way streets to locate my hotel. Some tracks repeat very often, i.e. my drives to work or my runs in the neighbourhood, others are seasonal and some are caused by imposed changes, that might be pleasant or not.
By 1987, I had abandoned narrative representation to work from the observation of nature. Studies from site were developed in the studio into a monumental scale. The resolution of the work depended on the viewer being visually engulfed by the paintings; to be "inside" the invented space. They were exhibited in 1988 and 1989 at the Carmen Lamanna Gallery and numerous public galleries. An excerpt from the statement written for the exhibitions � "�like listening to music."
/Paysage, etc. / occupe deux espaces bien précis (sol et air) pour former un tout homogène. Janet Logan empile au sol sur des coffres ou des chevalets telles des poupées, des peluches ou des coussins, des parties du corps humain qu'elle a réalisées à partir de vêtements, en camaïeu de blanc, qu'elle a défaits et recousus. Elle a crée des objets indéterminés, suspendus au plafond et qui, juxtaposés les uns près des autres forment un tout qui de prime à bord semble empreint de douceur et de légèreté, mais certaines des textures plus hérissés, entre autres le métal, s'opposent à ce qui est moelleux et réconfortant. Cette tension ainsi créé n'est aucunement menaçante, mais semble être le résultat d'une certaine anxiété. D'autre part, ce procédé d'exposition par suspension, amplement utilisé au XXe siècle, était déjà fort prisé au XVIe siècle - par exemple, dans les cabinets de curiosité on suspendait du plafond les objets les plus étonnants.
New York artist Joe Coleman views murder as a service to humanity, and serial killers as merciful individuals who fulfill the important role of ridding the world of overpopulation. He sees gun violence as service to the community and has celebrated murderers like Charles Manson, Ed Gain (the inspiration for Leatherface and Hannibal Lecter) and John Wayne Gayce in many of his paintings. In Coleman’s Malthus-inspired philosophy, this is not the time for birth, but a time for death.  "There is much hate right now in the world, because nature at this point wants to encourage warfare." Nature wants humanity to exterminate itself, and those of us who murder others should be viewed as heroes, not pariahs.

Winter landscapes, pristine deserts of ice, crystals: in keeping with the chilly season, db artmag’s current issue investigates art below freezing – works that address the theme of coldness either in a concrete way or on a symbolic, social, or metaphorical level. *True North*: Isaac Julien is considered to be one of the most important video artists of the present day; his works have often been the subject of controversial debate. His latest video installation addresses the sublime in landscape and juxtaposes the apparently immaculate Arctic

When I was younger, I was very upset with the ideologies of progress. I wanted to destroy them by showing that we are still primitives. I had the profound intuition that as a species, we had not evolved that much. Now I see that our belief in progress stems from our fascination with the content of consciousness. Despite appearances, our current obsession for changing the forms in which we access culture is but a manifestation of this fascination.
Depuis 1992, sa recherche identitaire se poursuit par la création d'installations où elle utilise des matériaux qui sont en lien avec son passé et habitent son présent : tissu, vêtement, filet, grillage, éponge, cordelette, bouton, pelure d'orange, etc., objets qu'elle trouvent entre autres à l'Armée du Salut. Le travail de la matière, qu'elle transforme au fil de son inspiration et les caractéristiques sensibles de ces matériaux - mollesse, pesanteur, douceur, parfois dureté et densité - s'effectue toujours dans l'abstraction. Son approche offre des similitudes avec celle de Louise Bourgeois et Annette Messager, quoique ces deux artistes travaillent essentiellement dans le registre de la narrativité.

Pyman describes the book as 'a biography from a parallel universe where history is informed by the present’. Sixty of Wilf’s cartoons spanning a thirty year period are represented together with invented archive material and examples of his peers’ artwork. The book resembles an artefact from a Blue Peter time capsule that has been sealed in and allowed to age.
My work tends to focus on the environment, the evolution of man and his material wealth, the development of bigger and bigger cities, more and more people, cars and industry on the planet and the consequences this has on nature. Some reviews have labeled my work as 'black humour' but I always try to depict a positive message too - the persistence of nature in recapturing what once belonged to the earth.

Space, the next frontier (by no means the final), beckoned. I'm finding it's really a matter of not connecting the dots, at least not all of them. It's leaving space and creating the illusion of space through the use of line, transparency, layering. And what space is this exactly? Location is fluid in this work and disorientation common. But these paintings are where it's at. It is a state of mind.

*The Bureau d’études* (F) shows the latest in a series of works that make the usually invisible links between the institutions that shape our lives (industry, governmental agencies) visible. Alice Creischer & Andreas Siekmann (USA/G) show a series of collaborative works that use the forms and language of Neurath and Arntz to ask questions of contemporary relevance. Stephan Dillemuths (G) recent work is concerned with groups that came to be collectively known as the Life Reform Movement.  puts up a discussion about a money-driven world using cartoon-like imagery.The past remembered or rather memorised? Based on facts or feelings? Material or immaterial? In his 1981 feature film, The Man of Iron, Andrzej Wajda re-enacted the scenes memorised from famous photographs and TV news items from the strikes in Gdansk Shipyard. He mixed up staged situations with genuine documentary recordings, making not only a movie but, more importantly, a significant operation on the collective memory. Along with the famous Solidarnosc logo by Jerzy Janiszewski, the film lays the foundations of the international visual legacy of the 1980s in Poland. Aneta Szylak, the curator, takes these two artefacts as points of departure for Dockwatchers, building the intellectual premises of the exhibition on re-enactment, revision of symbolic values as well as visible and invisible shifts in cultural memory.

Representations of firearms are a major element in contemporary popular culture. War films, action films and westerns, for instance, would not exist if there were no firearms portrayed. A large percentage of TV programs feature guns prominently. Crime, war and law enforcement are major themes in literature and television, with firearms playing a role across all genres.

Close to caricature, the works of Dan Perjovschi draw directly on today’s reality, while those of Donald Urquhart are inspired from underground and nocturn life. Constantin Luser opts for poetic dual-line projections with an industrial touch to them. Other artists play with the architecture of the venue, among them Robin Rhode who involves the public in drawn performances. Petra Mrzyk and Jean-FranCois Moriceau simulate, on the wall, a gallery of grimacing portraits. Collaborative work is another current trend, as in the spontaneously explosive fresco of Maroussia Rebecq and her guests. A luminous counterpoint is provided by the delicate dreamlike drawings by Vidya Gastaldon. Santiago Cucullu offers a coloured and 'mythological’ panorama and Sammy Stein, after creating his exuberant creatures, transfers them onto stickers that can infiltrate any place.
Through intuitive and process-led image making, I create dialogues with material, sites and residual memories. This interrogation regularly starts from abstract photographs I make in situ capturing my interest in specific man-made structures, buildings and physical spaces.
Creative Chaos represents the Collection of the Figurative-Abstract paintings. The characteristics of these Artworks consist in the instinctive approach enriched with a vivid chromaticism and Artist philosophy of life. Using the pure elements of form, line, color, composition, texture, pattern and process the Artist expresses her primordial sense of freedom suggesting the viewer intuition where each painting will lead to.

What is clear in these new origin myths is that the nation as a functional structure is less and less of an actor, regressing either to a role as manager and regulator of a market economy, or as a fragmentary or backward fossil playing host to corruption and opportunism. Even today’s most unapologetically authoritarian states are little more than an umbrella for the whims of an inner circle of rulers. But when faced with the question of what a state should or could be, and what its responsibilities are, we simply don’t care. And yet we have to admit that when the idea of a nation breaks off from the structural base of the state, things start to get extremely weird. The nation starts to morph into a floating signifier for all manner of original communities—and can be used by original and synthetic communities alike to recompose and assemble a myth of togetherness for whatever end they please.

Recent paintings have led me to believe in the metaphysical possibilities of my art­ a painting revealing a measure of its own objectecness­ the very mystery of just being there.
The artist Mary Walling Blackburn has pointed out that it becomes very interesting to think about overpopulation in this scenario. She was actually pregnant at the time. Overpopulation implies a capacity that has reached its limit, a bloat that is taxing resources. But what is it that is being overpopulated, and how is the capacity reached? Let’s try to look at it differently—by way of the family. The family is the place where public and private mash together. It is the interface of both. It is a shelter from society. It forges subjectivity, for better or for worse. It is universal even if it doesn’t assume a singular form. The

*_Timotheus Vermeulen—The New "Depthiness"_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/the-new-depthiness/> But what the line from /Girls /hints at is that, just maybe, we are seeing the first stage in another history of another kind of deepening, one whose empirical reality lies above the surface even if its performative register floats just below it: depthiness. 

Can a painting be a substitute for a "real thing" that arouses emotions? A cloudless view: the mirror and the other.

It was about the time the Artists' Jazz Band was organized, eighteen years ago, that I first began to live at Charlie's during the summers. I took the AJB there a couple of times and I'll never forget the tiny rowboat struggling across the river, barely above the waterline, laden down with the complete band, including a saxophones, trombones, a contrabass, and a whole set of drums. During the night I would walk down to the river for a couple of buckets of water and I'd hear the wonderful improvised music emanating from the cabin on the hill, filling the wilderness with sounds that seemed to flow naturally with the wind and the river.

There is an ironic effect produced by the fact that this emphatic reference to the canvas support as pictorial ground is conveyed specifically by the photographic element that covers most of the sur-face of each canvas. Since now the photographic surface has becomes the 'ground’ for the 'pain-terly’ figuration of the woodblock impressions, the history of photographic practice which has provided a competitive and often opposing force to the traditional dominance of painting and the materiality of the canvas support, now ironically acts as a reifying and 'affirmative’ reference. Just as text subscribes image, here photography subscribes paintings: — it confirms its existence through mechanical representation. However, it would not be entirely accurate to say that this reifying and affirmative effect ceases to be critical of these relations. Rather, through the 'displacement’ of the 'ideal’ ground of painting (the white, virginal space of the primed canvas) by the 'vulgar' specificity of photographic representation, this ironic reversal provides the opportunity for reflection upon the relative status of the pictorial arts and what we might call the 'idea of the picture’, the discursive logos of modern thought as represented in the image. The referencing power of photography has returned to the 'deconstru-ted’ materiality of painting and its canvas support the possibility of representation that was lost when painting, and especially its 'gestural’ rhetoric, was superceded by the 'industrialization’ of pictorial representation through mechanical reproduction such as photography and film. Now painting in its idealist dimension is ironically affirmed, and its reductive material dimension fetishized, through the intervention of photography.

2. The photographer must prepare the platinum printing paper. He selests among two or three of the finest papers in the world. The choice is an important decision. The beautiful subliminal qualities of the paper will become intrinsic with the image. Any invisible impurities cause unpredictable results. The paper must be absolutely pure, consistent in quality-and perhaps, considering the expense of the platinum salts, no too thirsty!
In biblical times it was greed and megalomania that caused the Tower of Babel to crumble, just as surely as they make fortunes rise and fall today. The fatigue and resignation of the guardsman, captured in a painting by Carel Fabritius, is the same as that of an exhausted and frustrated UN peacekeeper. As the exuberant and provocative parades on Gay Pride Day in cities across North America speak of prevalent social pressures, so the hedonistic bacchanalia processions depicted by Annibale Carracci on the ceiling of the Palazzo Farnese point to the battle of ideologies in 17th century Rome. Whether cloaked in antiquity by Poussin or captured by TV cameras on the streets of Sarajevo, the atrocities and horrors of war outrage us all the same. The possibilities of poignant associations are many.

The Brazilian artist Hélio Oiticica is best known for his coloured boxes, architectural constructions and the wearable caps inspired by his time in Rio’s Mangueira /favela/. Tate Modern’s exhibition provides an opportunity to explore this mercurial artist during the crucial years when he transformed himself from the precocious Neo-Constructivist acolyte of the 1950s into the revolutionary barrier-smasher of the 1960s.You realise how water never loses its identity, it is always discretely itself. Water is transparence derived from the presence of everything. Roni Horn ruminates on how water is central to her work in conversation with *Bice Curiger*. New York– *Scope* hunts down that most endangered of species: the emerging artist. Both moving target and elusive chameleon, *Scope*s 80 participants capture this exotic breed in their roving crosshairs. Challenging passive viewing with 30,000 square feet of open-range, *Scope* New York exposes visitors to a real-time survey of the contemporary art world available nowhere else. performance and exhibitions, an experimental music series, an online radio station and distribution label, and education initiative, and an artist residency program and study center. Under the stewardship of David Hunt and Franklin Sirmans, a consortium of independent curators will pass the curatorial baton, only to square off moments later in a bare-knuckle showdown. The anchorman becomes the lead-off man becomes the man who knew too much. Rolodexes are purged as relationship-arbitrage witnesses heavy trading. Including:
Recently I discovered some childhood drawings: simple, crayoned patchworks that resonate deeply with my fiber work. Inspired and invigorated by a renewed sense of continuity, and awed by the mystery of how creation occurs, I am now knitting richly varied fabrics exploring many patterns, textures and colors. Once knit, the fabrics are pieced to form an always new patchwork from which I make my garments and accessories.
In conjunction with a theme of awkward or difficult communication is an attention to conditions of vulnerability. Making myself vulnerable, physically or socially, has been a essential part of my art practice from the beginning. There is a part of me that likes being scared. When you are scared, you are paying close attention to the things around you. The world is big and moves in slow motion. It’s very different from panicking, when you can’t pay attention to anything around you. Finding ways to go through fear without panicking is a game of self control that I enjoy on an almost daily basis.

Such a concept of an autonomous, disseminated consciousness surpassing individual personality would, I imagine, tend to produce an ambiguity involving a dislocation of our individual conception of time (within which coming and going, beginning and end, are normally regarded) and confronting this "normal" view with an alternative, contrary sense of simultaneity or timelessness; switching the linear conception of time to which we are accustomed to a circular concept returning upon itself, as in Finnegans Wake. Likewise, if indeed the aesthetic image in a painting by Rembrandt is illuminated by Joyce’s radiance or whatness, and if that revelation of whatness is achieved by an ambivalence in the role of the paint (involving a transmogrification of the paint itself into the image and vice versa), then these circumstances also may be said to produce that timeless or paratemporal quality, which we instinctively recognize in such a painting.

Evan Levy's cold rolled steel sculptures appeal to our tactile as well as poetic sensibilities. His work is strong, tense and assertive while at the same time, lyrical and sublime. Levy's eye gripping sculptures confront the viewer with their strength, but leave us feeling ambiguous in that they appear to be on the verge of springing apart under the stress employed by the artist. These are precarious works which leave the viewer to doubt their weightiness. They appear to have a life all of their own. Levy's ability to achieve this dichotomy with his material is astounding.
Metaphor for here today, gone tomorrow

As forms go, the readymade is a slippery one. Its originator, Marcel Duchamp (1887–1968), spoke of it as "a form of denying the possibility of defining art." Now, as the form nears its 100th anniversary—Duchamp made his /Bicycle Wheel/ in 1913—the Contemporary Arts Museum Houston presents /It is what it is. Or is it?/, a group exhibition that//explores /how/ the form has changed. If any one characteristic of the form is consistent, it is not only formal, but also philosophical. The readymade unites material concerns with the invisible function of thought. It avoids participating in what Duchamp called 'retinal’ culture—the development of a solely visual and stylistic aesthetic in favor of one that unites material, physical, and formal concerns with ideas, philosophies, concepts, and feelings. Duchamp’s point, we seem to agree, was for us to get caught up in a conceptual effort to consider what we /can and can’t see/, and what happens when we encounter something familiar in an unexpected way. /It is what it is. Or is it?/ is a dialogue with the readymade form, seeing it not as a collection of static objects, but as a practice of displacement that turns thought into form and as physical evidence of conceptual exercise.
Following art school, I struggled to find a process of art making that could distinguish me. I wanted to make art that reflected my interests and personality. Intrigued by a painting by Philip Taaffe that consists of a simple 1:1 ratio of two contrasting colours, the contrast of colour acting to elevate the surface wave pattern from the background colour, inspired me to experiment with this concept, utilizing cardboard templates of various shapes. At the same time, my interest in fibre arts led to employment as a hand weaver for a coat manufacturer, allowing the loopy line motif in my paintings to be solidly referenced by my employment. Using yarn from the shelves at work as a guide from which to mix colour, further refined the connection between daily life and making art. As I continue to reconfigure shape, pattern and colour placement, this palette of 32 colours has come to characterize the Abstract Repeat series of paintings, the result being the completion of over100 works.

"Why would you want to do art about our experience. We're not important."
Les œuvres de J.W. Stewart combinent dans un environnement pictural à facture variable des matériaux photographiques et documentaires (photographies, reproductions, cartes, textes typographiques, illustrations techniques, graphiques, etc.) avec des effets de transparence et de translucidité. Il incorpore souvent des assemblages et des supports tridimensionnels ou sculpturaux.
It must be emphasized that these ruminations on tobacco (and by extension and association alcohol) – the lure of the delicious – of abiding friendships and fertile reveries - must come with advice and a caveat, don't drink and don't smoke. It's bad for your health.

Forms of Collectivity and their Critique: Neither the individual nor the collective is a self-enclosed given. Both are constructs, subject to mutation. How do we signalise those sparking points in cultural practice, where an interplay between artistic choice and civic volition could bring about a burst of critical agency? While some artists camouflage themselves as fictional collectives or use heteronyms, others distance themselves from ascribed or inherited formations; yet others subscribe or affiliate themselves to collective projects, artistic and political.
But in the more recent work, particularly /Corner of the Studio/ and /El Taller/, references to questions of production has signalled a shift in my work from an emphasis on questions of subject matter and signification to the aesthetic, ideological, and technical relations between painting and ph-tography. /Corner of the Studio/ and /El Taller/ were made especially for Galeria Tomas March of Valencia in 1993 and are related to each other in a specific way. Both works are of identical dimensions and formats. Both works consist of an arrangement of four canvases that combine photo-graphs of my studio with rectangular sections of inked impressions of plywood on acrylic.

/Interior with Fig tree/ and /Tao is Back/ are about a period of time before I separated from my husband. I wanted to express the bleakness and sense of uncertainty that I felt through images of my interior spaces that I loved. These paintings have animated plants with sinister expression. Claustrophobic interiors in shades of black /greens, touches of violet, ochre and teal intend to have an expression is of tension, strength and stillness in the face of uncertainty.

I often spit out my dirty secrets on to beds. The loaded references of this site beg for the whispering of my secrets, spoken through scared sheets, feather breasts and fluffy pink wool nests. They invite me to stitch, stuff, spit and smear imaginary shapes that are expressions of my inner worlds made outer. The sculptural pieces become the amalgamation and display of my repetitive gestures, a trace of their history.

The north to me had always been a place I visited for purposes other than painting. I thought the north, if it was to be painted, should be painted like the Group of Seven. Barns were to be painted in the manner of Syd Hallam or my father. Barry Kernerman picked out one of my newer pieces, and put it in the show. He generously put one of the semi-de Kooning things in too. Meanwhile, around the corner was The Greenwich Gallery where Av Isaacs was then building a stable. He already had Gerald Scott, Mike Snow, Gerry Gladstone, Graham Coughtry, and Robert Vavarande. My friend Coughtry recommended me to Av, so he came to see my work and said, 'I've got another young person I 'd like to show, so I think it might be an idea to have a two-person show.' The other person was Joyce Wieland. So, when I was twenty-three, I had an exhibition with Joyce Wieland at The Greenwich Gallery.
One can imagine a full shift of attention towards survival technologies. An artist must find ways to harness nuclear energy, to build better bunkers, to financialize everything possible by hoarding abstract capital that can only be spent on symbolic capital. Do we know what this art looks like? It might in fact look like nothing at all—hidden away inside a bunker, or appearing as a mirror that shows you your own image, but turned up a notch. Purged of positivist fantasies, it might only appear as money does: as an uncannily base dumb material like a stone or iron ore, but one that comes with a ghostly promise of eventually being exchanged for something better that may never come to pass.

Fred McSherry is a multi-media artist who has worked with sculpture, performance, video, installation and bookwork forms. Represented in numerous private and public collections, McSherry has exhibited his own work in solo and group exhibitions in diverse museums, galleries and cultural institutions in Canada and the USA. Over the past seven years McSherry has been building /The Virtual Library/, a collection of seventy one-of-a-kind artist’s books that use the same techniques as those employed in /Charles Baudelaire Long Dong Silver and Le petit prince/ to explore the role of the book in the production of popular knowledge.

On other frontiers, Gina Fairley explores the social dynamics of motorcycles and sporting subculture on barren Australian highways through the work of Shaun Gladwell. Rebecca Catching discusses the work of video artist Lida Abdul, a participant in the fifth edition of Asian Contemporary Art Week in New York who is also short-listed for the suspended by the energy of performance. And in regards to museums, it wonders what is possible to acquire for future generations, and how should performance be displayed?The third chapter on 5 April is composed of case studies of different histories of performance art within the field of visual arts, in different geographies, throughout the twentieth century. It discusses how and why these histories are being recuperated, translated and integrated or on the contrary excluded from the new institutional realities of contemporary art. Which histories are privileged and which ones are dismissed? Does the new paradigm of performance need these histories and are these histories legitimate historical precedents for this new paradigm? Or is the new performance turn too much a product of our times and its roots in the performance art of the late avant-garde too vague? Participants in this section include *KuroDalaiJee*, author of /Anarchy of the Body/, art historian, Japan, *Georg Schoellhammer* (Vienna-based editor, author, curator and editor-in-chief of springerin awe syndrome and generate a kind of interactivity with the viewer.

The theme of the studio has appeared constantly in my work since 1969 when I began documenting my workspace in a way that related the intellectual aspects of conceptual art with direct references to the material production of the art object, a self-consciously modernist strategy which still informs my work. As the space of production — the specific location of the construction of artwork in both the material and intellectual sense, as the place where the idea is produced as an object for con-templation and distribution — the image of the studio functions as a pictorial grounding of the concep-tual aspects of my work. From the beginning, this 'objectivication of thought was established also as an intellectual montage’, a link between literary material and a physical, technical process associated with objectness. The image of a random assembly of books and writing materials on a table occurs throughout the subsequent development of my work: this can be seen in /Summer Script/ (1973) , /Image / text/ (I979), /Art Work/ (1983), /In the Studio/ (1984), /Studio / Museum / Street/ (1986), /The Idea of the University/ (1990), and in most of the works of my 'Hotel series’ in which hotel rooms became a workspace while travelling. The theme of the studio also acts as a personal chronicle and self-reflection on the work itself in relation to the objective social space of the other two recurring the-matic locations that appear in my work: the museum and the street.
Farocki’s last work looked at the design of worlds within video games. If we understand the history of cinema as also being the history of optics, then what are the physics of a world made out of vision, of a living cinema? In gamespace there is always a problem when you try to leave, when you reach the edge of the world and you try to go past it, to exit completely. And in Farocki’s /Parallel I–IV/, the moment you reach the edge, you hit a transparent border. Even if you fall through past the limit, the film loop starts again and you are urged to return.
The only catch is that speed might already have become an outdated notion. We thought we had to be moving fast in order to cover these long distances, but it might just as well be that the world is shrinking, and we are not in fact moving as fast or as far as we had thought. And we are not so much at risk of fragmenting into a cosmopolitan mess, but of actually being compacted. If space and time are actually compressing, then something totally outside of our control would actually be consolidating all of our fragmentary contradictions on its own until we are completely resolved as a single thing. And this resolved state of being might use the strong name of a nation, tribe, sect, religion, or race to crowdsource votes or as a talisman to ward off further invasions trying to beam in over YouTube or Skype. Some of us may be convinced by not of the hopeful but of the concretely ordinary and pragmatically banal.
La deuxième occupe un espace carré au sol et est composée de trois volumes rectangulaires, alignés régulièrement à quelques centimètres les uns des autres. Ensemble, ils ne forment aussi qu’un seul volume, fragmenté. Leurs dimensions sont à peu près semblables, leurs hauteurs varient au centre, mais très peu. Les faces externes, en périphérie du volume, sont noircies et l’encadrent; les faces internes sont laissées brutes, comme les dessus, formés par stratification; un léger relief dessine, sur la surface vibrante et inégale, un frisson.

/Jackson Pollock: Blind Spots/ is curated by Gavin Delahunty, Hoffman Family Senior Curator of Contemporary Art, Dallas Museum of Art, with Based in Sao Paulo, artist Jac Leirner is one of the most emblematic figures of the Brazilian art scene in the last fifteen years. Most of the time, she creates sophisticated abstract compositions made out of our society of consumption’s rejected items. She collects cigarettes packets, plane tickets, envelopes, leaflets, stickers and museum shops’ plastic bags, all of which she then turns into artworks, thanks to a patient work of filing and installation. She often finds her materials during the frantic duration of her journeys; what comes out of it reflects her enduring interest in visual design and in the ways business and culture interact. a new, transnational generation of artists looking to the art of the 1960s and 1970s as a point of departure. Leirner’s meticulously constructed works carve out a place for commonplace objects, from cigarette packs and plastic shopping bags to cutlery and currency. In this, the first in-depth study of Leirner’s creative process, Nelson interviews the artist about more than two decades of production. excellence in visual-arts education. The CPPC achieves these goals through the preservation, presentation, and study of the material culture of the Ibero-American world—ranging from the ethnographic to the contemporary. CPPC activities include exhibitions, publications, grants for scholarly research and artistic production, and the internationally-recognized education initiative Piensa en arte/Think Art.

I centre in my work a deal with a political and sociocultural reality, with objects, images, texts that move and disturb the status by questioning its meaning and appearances, by overturning the relations between the work and its space, and by instituting the viewer as an essentiel component of the work's sense.

The management of public affect through authorized circulation has broken down all over the postcolonial world, if not elsewhere, disrupting older transactions between sovereign power and a population seen as susceptible to sensorial powers. Media has become the infrastructural condition of /living/, rather than existing as distinct, regulated sites like the cinema theater, or as celluloid. The always emergent potential (or "becoming virtual") of mediation is now a generalized condition of affect-driven postcolonial media modernity in India, if not most parts of the world today.

Beginning to tell the story of Sigma Festival in Bordeaux is as impossible as trying to make an exhaustive list of the events organised between 1965 and 1996, unless one possesses an overwhelming taste for the most extravagant associations—indeed, what could be more far removed, and even contradictory, in its most fecund acceptation, than *Karlheinz Stockhausen* and *Soft Machine*, *Nicolas Schöffer* and *Ben Vautier*, *Sankaï Juku* and kinetic art, *Lucinda Childs*, *Philip Glass* and *John Vaccaro’s /Play-House of Ridiculous/*, *Jan Fabre*, the Living Theatre and the *Performance Group*, *Sun Ra* and *his phrase? This is the issue at play in this unprecedented collaborative project between a museum dedicated to contemporary artistic creation and two institutions that retain the written, drawn, photographed, and filmed sources of our collective memory.

White Tiger (Kenny)

Mourning, the painful feeling that a person suffers at the loss of a loved one, is another theme addressed by contemporary art in relation to death. Juliana Schewe’s video /Still /surreptitiously captures the friends and family of the artist’s grandmother as they genuflect in front of the casket during her funeral.
/Andreas Schlaegel/ visits a skate ramp, made by the late *Michel Majerus* at the turn of the millennium. As part of the regular series 'In a Word,’ Italian artist *Carla Accardi *and Dutch design studio *Metahaven* both explore the idea of 'transparency’ and, in the first of a new series 'Trouvaille,’ /frieze d/e/ picks out favourites from the ebb and flow of culture: a book, a cd, a shoe, and a gun.

In this issue:
I like to think of the colour as being /in/ the paintings not on the surface, like tattoos.

The artist formalises his /Threshold/ work in three separate elements/moments.

Conceptual art referencing beauty and violence is featured by Sicardi Gallery with new work by internationally known Colombian artist *Miguel Angel Rojas*, March 27 – May 15, 2008. www.sicardigallery.com <http://www.sicardigallery.com/>
Impact of Mobility on Space and Time: The idea of a modern-day odyssey arises from a reflection on the global phenomenon of mobility in both its spatial and temporal dimensions. We would like to invite artists to investigate this situation by reflecting on how they can go beyond geo-political borders and explore terra incognita, going back and forth between the past and the future, towards a new horizon for what Thomas Friedman calls our " 'flat’ world."re: http://hollyrowanhesson.co.uk/artist-statement/

/Transition/ My current work continues an investigation into the formal relationship between painting and photography, focusing on the architecture and landscape of freeways and the buffer of land between the city and the countryside. The transition, dislocation and isolation that I experience driving through this sprawling landscape are used in the work as a metaphor for broader feelings of anxiety and uncertainty.
The central theme of the sculptures from the 1950s is the human figure, of which there are numerous depictions including torsos, heads, and portraits. At the same time, Kožarić also experimented with abstract shapes and ideas, which were to become more important in later years in pieces like /Osjećaj cjeline/ (Feeling of Wholeness, 1953/54). In his work, Kožarić intuitively challenged the distinctions between the figurative and the abstract rejceting the necessity of any exclusive determination.
deafness, sign language 1
Shot in the artist’s bedroom, the mise-en-scene of Brown’s video is dishevelled and menacing. A shotgun can be seen hanging from a nail on the wall. A white bed, reminiscent of the one in David Lynch’s/The Alphabet,/ provides a childlike eeriness. The words "Fuck You!?" are crudely written upon the grey-blue wall. The video’s aesthetic is dark and hopeless, like that of Jorg Buttgereit’s film /Der Todesking/, a cult masterpiece which blurs the line between art and exploitation, featuring one murder or suicide for every day of the week. Like Buttgereit’s film, Brown manages to be heartfelt and beautiful as he displays a large scar near his hand ("Left wrist, age 18, suicide practice") or describes how an ash stain on his forehead was made by stabbing it with a cross made out of burnt church wood.
Using a provocative character, the Artist represents a naive idea of femininity as a captivating side of the women's universe.
*_Ruchir Joshi—Also of Things: Notes for a Film Remembering Harun Farocki_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/also-of-things-notes-for-a-film-remembering-harun-farocki/>
Some salient quotations:

I still do not know exactly what to do about this incredibly beautiful image of a rainforest installed at the core of an art institution. It embodies all the difference in the world, separated from human agency and ideology, yet it also encapsulates the source of all that. It differs from the conventions of neutrality, and through its scale and its very nature it escapes from any formal canons. It compels a form of intelligence without consciousness to erupt into the white cube. 

The evolution of memory into the imaginary and the re-invented is at the center of the paintings and installations of recent years. Complex surfaces hold images and texts, changed as if seen through layers of time. Perforated, fragmented, stitched papers and fabric, beeswax, oil and pigments are transformed into visual terrains of remembrance.

My recent work is minimal in nature and structure. The simplified perspective of the canvas setting enables me to delve deeper into the fragile drama of both drawing and painting. I refer to these new works as "my poetic-philosophical excursion into the realm of lust and austerity; the naked presence of Life amongst the Broken Rhythm and Voids of Architectural Grandeur . . .  Beautiful Anxiety".
PAM creates a dynamic sensory environment that allows the artist and the viewer to participate in the curatorial process both at Scope New York and on the web at www.perpetualartmachine.com <http://www.perpetualartmachine.com/>. performers stand opposite each other–their hands are on each others shoulders as they awkwardly navigate into the social greeting of a distant air kiss. Just when the sexual tension between the two becomes unbearable, the performers slowly reverse the sequence of their previous gestures until they are air kissing once more. Craft Restaurants Chef Tom Collichios hip and award-winning sandwich bistro. wichcraft uses top-quality ingredients often from small, artisinal producers and professional cooking techniques to create a superior handheld meal. Served daily throughout the fair. Relax on Stark furniture from Kartell. renovated to become a new Center for Contemporary Art. 
*_Boris Groys—_*_*On Art Activism*_ <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/on-art-activism/> There is no doubt that we are living in a time of total aestheticization. This fact is often interpreted as a sign that we have reached a state after the end of history, or a state of total exhaustion that makes any further historical action impossible. However, as I have tried to show, the nexus between total aestheticization, the end of history, and the exhaustion of vital energies is illusionary. Using the lessons of modern and contemporary art, we are able to totally aestheticize the world—i.e., to see it as being already a corpse—without If the excess of ultranationalism demands that we stand whenever the national anthem is played, or that we cheer in the loudest voice every act of triumphant chest-beating, it may well be time for us to continue sitting where we are precisely because we love the ground that we sit on, and to do so quietly, since sedition sometimes speaks in whispers.
At school, the only class I really paid any attention in was art. I simply wasn't interested in anything else and I think my obsession with depicting the monotony of the work place and work force started there . . . 
Painting

Marman and Borins have shown work both in Canada and internationally, including exhibitions at Art Santa Fe, the University of Toronto, the Toronto International Art Fair, and the Scope Art Fair in Miami. Most recently they have been awarded a commission for the Toronto Sculpture Garden to debut in 2006. Marman and Borins have shown video works widely on an international level.
On one level, /Notations/ is an drawing as an immediate and subconscious process. My past research has included and indepth study of the immediacy of painting in the work of Philip Guston during his last decade where he often completed a painting in one night. The images in /Notations/ are a compilation of drawings that I made while talking on the phone, usually about school business. I chose my phone "/Notations/" as a subject for prints because I consider them a subconscious aspect of my drawing.
In my research on Yves Klein, I was taken up by his persona of the Dandy; he'd moved the legacy of Beau Brummel to the 20th Century. I was quite envious of the younger male painters in my milieu who seemed able to take up abstract painting without a qualm. Dandies themselves, they smartly took up a critique of the monochrome, weaving in references to pop culture, while making attractive, decorative work. They got to have their cake and eat it too. I'd trained as a formalist fifteen years earlier, but in the heady 80's had eschewed a conservative practice that didn't take up the political. Ever the whiney feminist, somehow I'd missed the boat.

*_Franco "Bifo" Berardi—The Neuroplastic Dilemma: Consciousness and Evolution_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/the-neuroplastic-dilemma-consciousness-and-evolution> The automation of cognitive activity is going to be a major trend of the coming age, and it marks a leap to the posthistorical dimension. In the modern humanist sense, "history" is the process of the conscious affirmation of free projects in the field of political action. But the cognitive mutation that we are talking about is going to dissolve the historical relation between consciousness, politics, and freedom.

I paint nature, not as an exact imitation of its external appearances, but through it's inherent somber and tranquil qualities. I use these attributes of nature to create a contemplative mood that invites thought and reflection.
/The Manitoba Flood/ work will on the surface appear to have a different subject altogether. However, in this body of work I have used the flood as a metaphor for destruction and its accompanying shot as a renewal. Each work is a diptych, one image was shot during the flood and the accompanying image of the same site was shot at some point after the flood. Together the photographs reflect the passage of time but more importantly how shifts in time and atmospheric space can bring transformation not even imagined before.

*_Paolo Virno—Déjà Vu and the End of History_*
I think of my installations as unfinished inventories of fragments: objects, drawings, paintings, photographs, and other inventions. They are improvisational sites in which the constructed and the ready-made are used to question our

It's a comment we often hear from people. It not only speaks volumes about the nature of working and community life in our society but it also addresses how people see themselves and what the dominant culture has done to that perception. We work with unions and communities as part of a larger collective process to change those perceptions. Our working relationship is based on a collaborative process mediated through the union movement or community group.
Metaphorically, I see painting as being representative of the interior / emotional body, while the photography speaks of the exterior / physical body. The hand, as mediator to the act of painting, can be seen as a metaphor for the sensual body, while the traces of photography are the tools by which the conscious body finds expression in the outer world. By using photographs and by desiring to paint them, I am breathing life back into these images - I am giving back to memories of time and place the aura and mystery that has been lost in the photograph. My desire to paint my photography is actually a desire to authenticate or make unique a world that is fragmented and overexposed in the photographic image.
To be more precise, it is forcing such a high level of abstraction that productive and reproductive forces become indistinguishable from each other. In a response in this issue to the "Manifesto for Accelerationist Politics," Antonio Negri identifies this particular level of abstraction as the place that must be occupied. Cognitive labor is already abstract, and it is under the auspices of this abstraction that its output is left by the roadside to be swept up by capital and taken elsewhere. Strangely, we are faced with a scenario in which not only the Left, but also capitalism suffers from retrograde approaches to technology. And yet, as the relation of the human to technology is being rewritten seemingly on its own, the urgent task becomes one of locating the places where the most crucial abstract and immaterial effects register themselves in life. It is a question of form.

Exploring uncertainty and transience, my work is concerned with the actual fragility and transitory nature of what seems solid, weighty and permanent, both physically and also in the way things are perceived.

life, landscapes, as well as natural and human phenomena. James Benning’s role is that of eye-witness. His observations would seem almost documentary-like were it not for the mathematical precision that becomes clear when we examine his films. The image detail—mostly from a central perspective—is always perfectly balanced, the play between image and soundtrack is exact, the motive captured at the right moment by the camera.
One series, "The Complete Artist", examined the history of the image of the Artist, appropriating portraits for their embodiment of certain stereotypes: the artist as angry, serious, bitter, modest, juvenile etc. Together they seemed to comprise a group portrait of my artistic milieu.
For example, Tomlin's abstract painting No. 12, 1952, oil on canvas, 66" x 48", collection of the Albright-Knox Art Gallery, Buffalo establishes two forms of perception that are fundamental to the development of abstract painting. That is, Tomlin by having painted a loose pattern of flat, white bars on top of a tight pattern of flat, coloured bars, usurps a previously claimed aesthetic space. Such a visual device entails viewers making distinctions about the difference between the elements that make up the narrow space if the painting. Together, these two principle forms of perception represent a balanced interrelation between the three components of abstract painting: the abstract, the real, and the symbolic.

*For the majority of young girls and boys, this is their first encounter with an art space. They are totally lost. They have no idea what to expect. They are trembling. How this initiation happens is extremely important, so we really try to work hard on it. Courage is important, having the courage to tremble.

A previous painting project, "Sliding Landscapes", had tried to address some of these same issues. It investigated painting as d�cor, purposefully taking a small range of historical images (18th-century Italian landscapes), reworking them in several modernist colour schemes and then hanging the works as a pattern on the wall, like an Ellsworth Kelly installation. With "Last Pony", I might once have considered doggedly realizing similar colouristic options as a series of painted variations (see Gilles project). Now, however, with the image conceived as a manipulable photograph of an object in context, I am relieved of that fetishistic studio imperative.

Ziółkowski’s vision parallels a collision between the fantasy planet of Hieronymus Bosch and the grotesque cartoonish world of Philip Guston, viewed through the lens of the artist’s extraordinary imagination. Influenced by the folk tales and the often dark history of his native country, and by contemporary culture, Ziółkowski’s references are wide-reaching: from the Ancient Greeks to André Masson to Frank Zappa. Ziółkowski’s measured and often delicate command of his medium belies his sinister subject matter. His paintings resonate with an unnerving atmosphere, which speaks profoundly of the darker side of human nature.

But even when I was fifteen I was somewhat outside my contemporaries because of an interest in jazz: Louis Armstrong, the Hot Five, Django Rhinehart. Bush was also a great jazz fan. Elvis wasn't around then, but I liked that kind of music too. Rock and roll existed in its roots under the name of R and B. I started to listen to the classics and broadened my scope with music as I was broadening my scope with experiencing the world of art.

Marman and Borins graduated from the Ontario College of Art and Design in 2001. Prior to that, Marman received a BA in Philosophy from the University of Western Ontario and Borins received a BA in Art History from McGill University.
In 1914, the Government of Canada first used the War Measures Act to unjustly intern 8,579 immigrant Canadians in 24 camps, one of which existed in Banff at the foot of Castle Mountain in summer and at the Cave and Basin Hot Springs in winter. Over 600 internees occupied the Castle Mountain/Banff camp between 1915 and 1917. The reasons for the camps were largely economic. Parks Canada wanted roads built to develop Banff's tourism frontier. Internees provided cheap labour at a time when Canada was at war in Europe. Parks Commissioner J. 'Bunny' Harkin devised a plan calculating the value of mountain scenery at $13.88 per acre, resalable many times. To develop Park lands for tourism, Canada needed paved roads to bring in new American cars. Internees built the Banff-Lake Louise highway, trails around Emerald Lake, roads and sidewalks in Banff, bridges, and more.
After seeing the show Burton and I turned on our heels, hurried back to the Villa Crispin into our individual studios, and did our first 'giant' abstract paintings, probably on four-foot pieces of masonite. They were somewhat similar and Ronald-like. Did we feel good! Somehow, there was some kind of relief. Still, for months, or maybe years, we were quietly nervous about the significance of such work - 'is abstraction really art?' - that kind of question. We always argued and discussed it. One night two senior painters, Cleeve Horne and R. York Wilson, came to visit. They were fantastic, so generous, genuinely interested and so encouraging. They had spent the evening priming pieces of masonite for their own work, and took it upon themselves to see what the young pups were up to. They talked for hours. They looked at our work, and never said anything negative (though I'm sure they must have thought it) but somehow managed to say 'keep going'. They were kind human beings, not authoritarian Victorian squashers.
The eight paintings are installed at varying angles and heights, animating the whole of the wall. As monochromes they evoke the Ellsworth Kelly installation at the National Gallery in Washington, DC, "Color Panels for a Large Wall" (c.1978). However, their diagonal composition denies the flatness of that modernist grid. The landscapes themselves recall motifs found in wallpaper or brocade, suggesting that the solemnity of the monochrome might be the decorative in disguise.
Social Conscience paintings strive to articulate a message about use/abuse of the environment, animals and humans. I believe that animals have sentience and that our environment exists by virtue of symbiotic relationships. I see these works as art engaging with important social issues of our time, outside the normal aesthetic discourse and perhaps having more in common with Social Practice maneuvers. My content has synchronicities with animal rights groups. I believe that allure is important in any effort to communicate or allow for comprehension of our effect on the environment due to ingrained habits like the use of oil, fur and general consumption.
The light, and also the density of the bush where I am, is similar to Algonquin Park. I'm just fifty miles further north. I have coloured slides of the Magnetawan River, taken in steaming August, that look like the Amazon. The bush and greenery come down and overhang the large river. It's a jungle! It's difficult to walk through that bush unless you stay close to the shore. I pretend Charlie's Place belongs to me even though I'm a squatter. I fix it up and believe it's mine every year. Charlie Clifton died about fifteen years ago. His wife, Myrtle, was magnificently jovial and rotund, a five foot tall, bleached blonde from Florida. She learned all the methods of skinning animals and filleting fish from the local trappers and Indians, and taught them to me. This teaching added to the tradition wood lore I had learned from my father, establishing a kind of continuity in my life.

In No Fixed Address and Paint Palettes, I examine how ornament and decoration are used to delineate space and assert autonomy. For No Fixed Address, I photographed the front doors and entrances of 25 subdivision homes on a suburban street in Spring, Summer, Autumn, and Winter. The structure of each home is strikingly similar in design, and each doorway is flanked by a set of nearly identical pillars. To offset the architectural sameness, many home owners have made a variety of superficial changes. Some front entrances have been renovated; others are replete with flower pots, elaborate entrance hardware, a wide range of concrete and flagstone steps, wreaths, seasonal ornaments and decorative mailboxes. Although the monotony of the 100 photographs is striking, the subtle "home improvements" become important signifiers of an attempt at demarcation.

Fundamental to this artist’s contentious strategies are these sorts of slippages of meanings, shifts from the conventions of semantics to those of identity and back again, with all their attendant contradiction and paradox. Similarly crucial are the physical displacements of certain marks of identity into contexts or supports where they acquire one or more new meanings or reveal unexpected characteristics that clash with their original meaning (and where they suggest the Surrealist 'found object’ in all its riveting subversion). On the basis of Conceptual art, Echakhch makes use of any language and technique available: installation, video, sculptural objects, simple materials from everyday life and happenings. At the core of the works on display is a shared effort to provoke the present by confronting the past. The work of the late Russian architect Yakov Chernikov is a bold statement of resistance to the Stalinist /The Snow Show 2006/, the third to be curated by Lance Fung, will be presented prior to the opening of the XX Winter Olympic Games in Turin in February 2006. The event will bring together six new collaborative examples of snow-built cutting-edge contemporary art and architecture. The teamed participants include Kiki Smith and Lebbeus Woods, Yoko Ono and Arata Isozaki, Carsten Höller and Williams & Tsien, Daniel Buren and Patrick Bouchain, Paola Pivi and Cliostraat, Jaume Plensa and Norman Foster.

Jack Burman’s photographs of corpses and bones inspire reverence and calm. His large-scale photograph/Capela Dos Ossos, Portugal /was taken inside a chapel made entirely from bones that were collected from graveyards in the 16th century. The image in the photograph is of an altar with a crucifixion image; the altar is made of human bones. Rather than appearing gruesome, the image is a beautiful reminder of the precariousness of life and the power of faith.
I'd make my newspapers, pecking away at the typewriter about what happened in my district or what happened when I went swimming the day before. We'd always need headlines and my father would come over and letter them in. they were really fantastic pieces because they were all rubbed out and had spelling mistakes and paste-in changes. Actually, this was my introduction to typography, layout and design. I cut out pictures from real newspapers and put them in mine; I suppose these could be considered my first collages, although I wouldn't have known the word then.

In my painting I seek to continue an itinerary from a European formation, from a semiotic view point to a poetic abstraction. When describing my process of painting I like to bring forth, to draw an analogy by pointing onto the space found between the words of a typeset page, of a text.

But as winter takes hold in many parts of the world, another kind of doubt begins to set in, with a tinge of disappointment that circumstances in many places that saw the most intense uprisings have not actually been significantly transformed for the better. The removal of dictators has only peeled back the top layer of societies with endemic problems that must be addressed by a renewed sense of civic society. The 99% remains at the mercy of the 1%. The military crackdown in Syria remains unbelievably bloody. An enormous swell of hope that was felt throughout the world earlier this year now seems like it could be orphaned by setbacks, by the scale of brutal realities that seemed as if they were starting to crack open.

Today, less than % of fine art photographs are printed in platinum-because it is ten times more costly to the artist, and significantly harder to do.
In the practice of my art, I try to stage the way we perceive and build the "real" by casting our desires into it, how with our psyche we transgress reality through the fabrication of the marvellous. The core of my work rests principally on subjective experiences and refers to imaginary spaces, to the exotic, to romantic desires and to whimsical fancies. Like the experiences of illusions and disillusions strewn through our lives, my work strives to oscillate between the pleasure of the aesthetic illusion and its unavoidable breakdown, between an idealized vision and banality. My work recalls the vulnerability of humankind, faced with the inevitable discrepancy between our desires and reality.
*Of All Forms of Photography, The most Luminous, Enduring and Rare. Why They Look so Beautiful. How They are Made.*
My clocks have been in the making for more then 30 years. They are an expression of my dissatisfaction with the traditional clock face as well as all of the notions behind that face.
Looking back, it seems the men in my childhood were constantly using their hands at one skill or another, while the women made magic in the kitchen. I lived with my mother, whom I love dearly. She was a true beauty, full of life, ebullient and always tolerant of my slipping in and out of her life at breakneck speeds. When I was eight she married a Toronto fireman, Frank Nash; unfortunately we didn't get along with each other. He wanted me to be a fireman. My ambition to be an artist made it impossible for both of us. By this time it was 1943 and my father had remarried. At age twelve, I took a matriculation year at Northern Vocational High and failed. I had been a bright kid in public school, skipped grades and was a top athlete. But by age fourteen I was running away from home. I also started to get interested in the phenomenon called girls and fell desperately in love regularly, not to mention sneaking drinks out of the liquor cabinet, and spending more and more of my free time at the local restaurant hangout, Chum's, where I was a hit because I could draw caricatures of my friends. Chum's was run by a one-armed Chinese man who kept a baseball bat under the counter. We'd sneak cheap rye into our lemon cokes and dressed in black satin Eisenhower jackets with zippers from the left hip to the right shoulder. We wore ducktail hairdos and green strides with canary yellow out seams that had forty-four inch knees, thirteen-inch cuffs and drop-loop gun pockets. A long furnace chain usually hung down to the floor with a shiv on the end of it. Add to this style a Sammy Taft hat and a long black Benny overcoat and you'll recognize the period. We were walking Al Capp cartoons. And we danced almost every night. You'd find us at school tea dances, or Catholic Church dances. We'd do the dirty boogie, the Fallingbrook Balmy. We'd go out to the Canoe Club in the East End, dance, drink beer and fight over girls. I can't remember anyone ever getting really hurt.

/The Nature Paintings /began in 1987 after moving to Flesherton, a village 30 minutes south of Owen Sound. I have been painting my pond in Flesherton from basically the same vantage point for nearly ten years now. The image of the pond, sky and trees is a constant in the environment, but the elements: the wind and weather, the passage of night to day and the seasons [are ever changing].
I call this culture driven by nationalistic spectacles and the denial of historical facts "pornographic fascism." It is based on a dynamic of revealing and hiding, of exhibitionism and denialism: revealing private life (of the imperial family), one’s own dying body (in media spectacle), and the graphic language of racism, while hiding the dirty secrets of history. Pornographic fascism is driven by the desire to perform martyrdom for the homogenized territory of the mass media.
In Toronto I have continued my narrative Primal series that address sexual, religious and cultural attitudes, transgressing to find the animal within. We anthropomorphize animals and are familiar with characters like 'Peter Rabbit'. These tragicomic paintings reverse this, questioning the nature of reality and individuality. 'Rue' is set in a parched land since the environment consumes us as we devour it. The inspiration was a book called Super Freakonomics that proposed substituting cows with kangaroos since they emit less methane. The snake-man's erection is symbolic of Capitalism's sexual and unreasoning will to power. 'Promiguous' muses on mastectomy and idealism. Australian scientists have been growing human breasts on pigs as replacements. I borrowed from Titian's "Danae", referring to the odalisque tradition as an ideal of Western womanhood.
I identify closely with the materials I use and the compositional devices I employ; structural fragmentation, glazes, three-dimensional and two-dimensional space, and colour. I use these materials and devices for their inherent natural and abstract characteristics, sensual and textural aspects, and for their symbolic qualities.

But it’s getting cold out there. Something in this setup is shifting below our feet. Something is making the image of the people fuzzy, increasingly vague—a floating signifier missing its referent. Now militants who might have once fought for an idea are increasingly self-interested. Artworks are starting to function more like investment vehicles that no longer need to be seen by people. And some say that our most recent stage of planetary evolution—our current geological epoch—is distinguished mainly by the permanently destructive effects of human industry on the biosphere, in species extinction, deforestation, pollution, radiation, and so on. Which is to say that humanity can no longer be taken as the solution to anything. On the contrary, and from the perspective of the earth, humanity looks increasingly like the problem. 
Have you ever had one of those moments of absolute clarity - where self, landscape, and context instantly fuse into coherent understanding, and history's continuum opens out before you like a long, deep gorge? This work comes from such a moment.
Le mur est de la galerie reçoit en après-midi une tache de soleil qui le balaie d’un bout à l’autre; le soleil entre par les fenêtres du mur nord. C’est que l’est et l’ouest qui servent de repères dans cette ville sont décalés par rapport aux points cardinaux. La géographie urbaine ne coïncide pas avec la réalité géographique, ce qui nous permet d’avoir du soleil nord nord-ouest. Ce ne sont peut-être que deux systèmes de conventions qui se heurtent; et puis les choses sont souvent autres que ce qu’elles semblent être. Ce type d’idée reçue conditionne cependant la perception et le rapport à ce qui nous entoure, insidieusement.

Conjointement à ma pratique installative, j'ai une pratique soutenue du dessin. À l'origine simples esquisses pour des installations futures, le dessin est devenu avec les années une pratique autonome qui se nourrit des mêmes préoccupations que ma pratique installative. Je réalise des dessins de grands formats qui évoquent des paysages imaginaires labyrintiques dans lesquels le regard est invité à se perdre. Comme dans Les villes invisibles de Italo Calvino où, dans une entente tacite entre le narrateur et le sultan, ce dernier se délecte d'une vision idéalisée de son empire, ces espaces irréels m'intéressent en ce qu'ils s'entichent d'une vision idéalisée du monde où le désir et la fabulation triomphent sur la réalité et la vraisemblance. Mes dessins sont composés de motifs s'amalgamant les uns sur les autres de manière à former des paysages artificiels où montagnes abruptes, tapis volants, cieux étoilés, volcans et châteaux deviennent des figures récurrentes.
In the year of my birth Jackson Pollock created his first 'drip' paintings; Bell Lab Scientists invented the transistor; a UFO dropped out of the sky over Roswell, New Mexico; Henry Ford died; Chuck Yaeger broke the sound barrier at Mach One; and Tupperware was introduced to the North American household. Later, I studied and graduated from university with Donna Reed, Bill Bailey, Nancy Davis, Margaret Mitchell and Henry Miller.
Chisenhale Gallery presents a solo exhibition by James Richards comprising a series of newly commissioned video works set within an ambient display structure tailored to the gallery space and an accompanying programme of events devised by the artist.
I worked in various ways. In some prints, for instance, I use the idea of the photo inset where a small section of an image is magnified and overlaid onto the original; in these prints the inset is magnified into a pixelized section. I used found photos and the works of my favorite photgraphers, printmakers, and painters. In my last prints I made a series of prairie landscapes, small prints, almost sketch-like. For physical reasons, after this series, I could not make prints and gave my attention instead to projects for the Internet, where I have been working since the early 90's.
freedom, which isn’t new but is currently being rekindled and, above all, revaluated.  

The Artist represents an African woman hugging a baby. In spite of the physical conjunction represented by a hug, both the characters apparently play an independent role in this Opera: the woman looks tired, submissive, unhappy and somehow resigned to her fate; the baby instead seems to peacefully rely on her ancestry privileges.

Keen on finding the missing link between Baldessari’s pure beauty and Deleuze’s theory of the anomalous? Or perhaps argue that Matta-Clark’s building intersections can be twice as fun if you’re reading an essay on MACBA’s pristine building? Or maybe just create a playlist of all the MACBA’s mp3 lectures you are planning to listen this weekend . . .  Either way, when it comes to the /Itineraries/ it’s really up to you to curate, collect, and provide the meta-reading on MACBA’s rich digital heritage.

During photography’s "golden age", at the turn of the century and into the 1900’s, the platinum print was a dominant medium. If you were a serious photographer, you did your work on platinum paper. But suddenly it was unavailable because of the World War: platinum was strategic, and Russia had most of the world’s supply.
Fast’s critical perspective on the shifting nature of contemporary warfare blurs the lines between fiction and reality, truth and memory, combat and everyday life, demonstrating the ethical complexity of one of the most hotly debated topics on the media agenda. 

As the cycle completes, two women hanging bat-like from the silver bridge are locked in an embrace, finding a brief moment of balance somewhere between memory and fantasy before losing it again.

/*Trance Dance*/ The San or Bushmen, have an interesting concept of the power possessed by animals. It is called n/um and is an energy that can be beneficial or destructive to humanity if not channeled. The San perform the Trance Dance, which is a healing ritual, around a fire at night. The women sit in a circle and clap the intricate rhythms of wordless songs that are named after "strong" things like Eland or Gemsbok antelopes. The men dance in a line within the circle and alternate the vortices by changing direction. Spirit animals are attracted to the dance site. The dancers describe a boiling in their stomachs and begin to see pathways of light that lead to the spirit world. At a point some go into a trance that enables them to blend with the spirit world and in certain cases become spirit animals. This allows them to transcend physical barriers and become shamans. These healers seek the "sickness" in the other individuals, drawing it out through sites like belly buttons. Finally, they collapse exhausted and are coaxed back to life by the others through song and stroking.
*Just obsessive, self absorbed, deluded, lonely, dirty, penniless, alcoholic painters discussing what they love most. Turps Banana is the only painting magazine written exclusively by painters. magazine concentrates exclusively on painting and is written by practicing painters. Uniquely the editorial remit carries a no advertising policy so there is no distraction from the ranging debate about contemporary painting.
The paintings that I have shown most often are cover versions of some of the top hits in the canon of art history, examining stereotypes of the human figure as it has manifested as nudes, warriors, clowns, and artists.
Thérèse Joyce-Gagnon, RCA
A space within space- space as something. Timed Based Projections: introduce an object as a temporal element to the Velvet Tarpaulin composition. The abstraction or text that has been painted with extraction fluid on the black velvet tarp depicts space within space existing on its own as the image. A timed slide projection of an object is periodically introduced to the composition for a set amount of time. The object, is temporal and can be seen in part as well as because of the spaces created. Adding the object as projection attempts to alter not invert a historical hierarchy of space/object relation.
Artist's Statement - Bert Weir A long time ago I began working very close with nature attempting to understand various feelings sent to me by the warm earth smells the sound of leaves the movement of clouds the growth of all organic things the wind activated movement the motion and sound of waters the light change and most of all the spiritual relations between all of these things and me
Painting as a diagram of inner experience draws a precarious line between the /monde concrete /we bump into and the unknowable dimensions of thought: the dance of madness and reason. In this reflexive visual ritual we recognize our own inner perceptions as we recognize a stranger's interpretation of the objective world. We remember the precognitive visual language of our species as it is reflected back to us from painting: our animal-mystic dreams. Our self-knowledge is more than the splashing about of electro-chemical storms in our brains. Mystery betrays the known.
How does official history relate to personal history? How many individual complications do the rules of political historiography allow? Grubanov describes his working method as mapping myself into complex historical situations. He usually choses a subjective, documentary approach; there is always a certain ambivalence with regard to the subject. He avoids superficial points of view, opinions or unambiguous emblematic images. At the same time the artist also questions himself: how far can identification and self-reflection go? Ivan Grubanov (Belgrade, 1976) belongs to the generation of young Serbian artists who grew up in a strictly confined society. They rebelled against the regime of Milosevic and demanded freedom of expression, open communication with the world around them, and room for new experiments in the visual arts. In these circumstances Grubanov became aware of his role in society and of his responsibilities, feeling national-state representation, one might instigate a discourse on the meaning of the term "nation" in post-global age, when the national state retreats before the trans-national and supra-national forms of organizing—conglomerates, political, military and economic alliances which represent huge concentrations of power and influence. 
Conceived in homage to architect James Stirling, who believed that urban design is integral to the practice of architecture and a vital topic for public debate, the /James Stirling Memorial Lectures on the City/ competition was inaugurated in November 2003 as a unique forum for the advancement of new critical perspectives on the role of urban design and urban architecture in the development of cities worldwide.
Before banks, before currency, valuable things were placed in circulation as lines of credit whose ultimate end was to return to the sender having accumulated surplus value. In short, participants gave in order to increase their holdings, but this interested act created something more than the interested rational subject-it created moral obligations and social worlds.

Also intriguing are the correspondences that arise when walldrawings and animations are confronted in a same place: the drawings line up along the walls, the films follow each other in a loop. And the result is an energy that challenges the often narrow definitions of drawing and its potential for experiment.

Disco Kid, Malcolm X, Angela Davis—photographer *Samuel Fosso* slips into a wide array of roles, tapping African cultural history for his store of props.

These paintings happened in a funny way . . . 

Clocks have forced us to view time as detached, regimented and a structured entity that has a reality separate from ourselves. The equal intervals and numbers on the face of the clock further this perception.

The focus of what I have included reflects my involvement with the complexity regarding inter-personal relationships in our societies. In 1979 I accompanied my mother who had been asked to appear as a witness in a War Crimes Trial in Düsseldorf, Germany. After going through this experience with her my work over the next few years evolved into an exploration of anti-Semitism and Holocaust. How people inter-relate in our societies became focused on the Jewish experience as I saw it through my family's history.

I titled the work –*Penetrating the Cit*y – in part, in response to the myth that lesbian sex is primarily, if not exclusively, oral sex. Lesbians are the only population for whom AIDS education safe sex has concentrated on the use of dental dams. Additionally, the work is a homage to Montreal the city and to Montreal photography. I pay tribute to the Montreal (neo Pictorialist) photo aesthetic while also slyly inserting lesbian sex into these romantic cityscapes.

Moving into a method of painting with an emphasis on technique I began to explore the movement of my own hand. The origins of writing have always interested me so I began freely rendering my hand movements in automatist marks along registers or rows such as the Egyptians used. In some of these I combined the tree image with the marks. Gradually the marks took on a rhythm of their own in forming shapes in the paintings.
Tony Urquhart's book illustration has put him in collaboration with such authors as his wife Jane, Michael Ondaatje, Matt Cohen and Louis Dudek. His work is prominent in the collections of such institutions as New York's Museum of Modern Art; the Victoria and Albert Museum in London, England; the Hirshorn Collection of the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C.; the Bibliotec National in Paris; the Museo Civico in Lugano; and the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis.
The digital images in this portfolio represent work done using original photographs by the artist and 'Photo Shop' imaging techniques. After traveling to places like Africa, Newfoundland, the Sea of Cortez in Mexico, California, Costa Rica and New Zealand, I was inspired by the natural history of creatures and the geological formation of land. Fossils found on land are the evidence of prior plants and creatures which once covered much of the earth. This skeletal/creature evidence was combined with photos of the places today to express a sense of the ancient natural world as it might exist in our imaginations when confronted with fossils.
And is not Yeats’s circular lunar system of re-incarnation--the winding stair of Thoor Ballylee, climbed and descended repeatedly--itself a cosmic arrangement of this fluid succession of presents, of time-consciousness in this profoundly Celtic sense? Is this indeed the underlying ambivalence which we in Ireland tend to stress; the continual presence of the historic past, the indivisibility of birth and funeral, spanning the apparent chasm between past and present, between consciousness and fact?

Conceptual

My recent paintings have led me to believe in the codification of colour: painting revealing a measure of its own objectness; the very mystery of it being. The painting takes something from the artist and in turn has its own presence.

Textual material is used in a variety of ways in Stewart's work. Some texts are composed and set in type by the artist. Others are combined from disparate existing sources and then set into type. Most often the appropriated texts are edited or rearranged; their meaning shifted to suit their new setting both in terms of meaning and of their formal qualities. Texts are sometimes taken directly from printed sources (reproduced in the source's typesetting) as are the charts, graphs, technical and scientific diagrams and drawings that also appear in these works. Entire pages are sometimes lifted wholesale and used unaltered.

The work suggests a vivarium of surprising size that interweaves a multitude of threads introducing the idea of movement and perpetual metamorphosis. successful one. UBS has a strong tradition of sponsorship in which both the sponsor and the project owner act as partners to develop common ideas and grow together. UBS wants to combine the financial with a cultural commitment and to take on longterm responsibility in projects that are meaningful to the society. Sharing strong sustainable values such as teamwork, high standards of quality, dedication and innovation, Art Basel Miami Beach is pleased to have UBS as main sponsor for the new international art show. The examination of political, social, economic and personal realities is picked out as a central theme in the sociologically oriented work of several young artists. While video art, installations, multimedia works and process art are in the foreground, various currents in postmodern painting, as they appear at the beginning of the new millennium, are also on display in Miami Beach.

*The Centre for Contemporary Canadian Art* *The Canadian Art Database: *Canadian Artists Files
/tony about tonys/
I am also keen to draw out correlations between those conditions of artistic production and consumption and the chaos of everyday life in process — in the street, on a construction site or in the domestic realm. Humans are hard-wired to manipulate materiality: We are devoted to constructing, acquiring, rearranging, deconstructing, recycling and disposing of stuff. Art is as much a byproduct of such urges — the urges that shape our entire material culture — as it is an elevated, freestanding activity. Photography now strikes me as the most direct way to talk about these relationships.

was that it placed many of the complexities and contradictions of economic problems within a clear and singular binary between capitalism and communism. On top of that, arguments in favor of one or the other had massive geopolitical blocs backing them, and the sheer scale alone was enough to draw any economic argument into the tide of one side or the other. This made it only natural for dominant narratives following the dismantling of communism to profess the triumph of capitalism. However, it is only now that the logic of global capitalism has begun to collapse from within that we are forced to consider the fact that economic value and actual worth have actually been floating on parallel tracks this entire time.
On one level, it is simple common sense to suppose that one can only begin to write after learning how to read. But, at the same time, this ordering also takes for granted that consumption must necessarily come before production; only after you consume knowledge will you then be capable of producing it. It is a fundamental understanding of learning that is typical of the master-apprentice model found in craft guilds. The problem arises when the language to be learned has not yet been invented, or the practice of a craft is not controlled by a guild.
bourgeois
In my photographs, I hope to explore the modes of consumption common to art and the everyday, as art makers and our art-trained eyes transform refuse into something it was not meant to be.

The artwork I have made is primarily and inextricably socially concerned.

I see the surfaces of my paintings as hovering somewhere between skin and screen caressed by my touch but with no tracking of the hand/brush visible. The colour is purposely fake. Life has turned into 'still life' frozen on the screen, reflected in the glass, observed, recorded, transmitted, digitized. The elongated format of the paintings envelops our gaze and reflects back to the historic panoramic photos and paintings of natural wonders. Translucent shiny layers of colour act as both barriers and filters that position the viewers or spectators as the surveyors looking out from the gaps or 'windows' in the imagined viewing chambers.
/The Tibetans/ is a portfolio of photographs from late 1995. For ten years I have documented threatened world cultures: the Tuaregs or Blue Men of the Sahara Desert, the Nubians in southern Egypt and the Maya in Chiapas, Mexico. Yet, I believe, in The Tibetans, I have assembled the photographs that best represent the spirit of an unsettled world culture.

The paintings and some of the etchings rework photographic portraits of groups of military personnel from different countries involved in WWI; to date portraits from Canada, the USA, France, Germany, Russia, Turkey, Belgium, India, Nepal and Italy have been completed. In each of these works special attention is paid to the individual parts that make up the whole: unique faces, and stances separate the one from the many, the individual from the group. Just as differences within each order are made apparent, similarities in circumstances from one to the other come to the fore. Regardless of personal belief or particular situation all participants are in harm's way, all are at war.

In my work, colour functions as a factual component, one hue being equal in importance to any other hue. Colour is chosen intuitively by weight and by presence, not necessarily by its representational properties, commercial or natural.

In our long-form review, Malcolm Cossons takes a look at "When Three Dreams Cross," a sweeping photographic survey spanning 150 years at London’s Whitechapel Gallery, and senior editor Don J. Cohn covers two new publications on film and visual culture in India and Pakistan, as well as a surprising artist’s book by *Aisha Khalid* that is at once delightfully blank and full of persuasive, subliminal narrative.

If it took hours to do the sketch and months for it to sit around until used, then weeks to finish the piece, I would like the work to reflect, in some way, the passing of time, maybe implying that the plants depicted are still in the act of growing: The scene being an average representation rather than a snapshot frozen in time.
*_Anna Tzini—The Opacity of Queer Languages_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/the-opacity-of-queer-language-2> Queer slangs are full of irony on several different levels that are recognized by all, but only meant for some. Often the same (ironic) phrase can have different groups laughing for reasons that are not only different, but also politically oppositional, producing a third layer of humor for those who understand both meanings and can see how others are laughing at something that could be read against themselves, but without having the faintest idea.
This symposium brings together experts and collaborators to reflect on the diverse media blend created by the Japanese poet, photographer and books, films, photographs, and music are brought together to create a unique and powerful picture. Testifying to the vitality and multifaceted nature of mutual relations, /Side by Side/ explores the role of history and representation by crafting national and cultural identities. El Karchi is trying out the time-honoured genre of portrait painting and has something of the 'fine painter’ about him, whereas De Wit demonstrates daring and bravura in his paintings and sculptures, bringing together or 'assembling’ all kinds of things. *El Karchi and De Wit have a preference for figurative representation, especially of the human figure and its personifications.*

The gallery supports the creative work of independent curators. Curators build the frame work in which we understand artists and the art they make. At their best, they redefine how we look at culture.
/Synopsis of Works/

survival, and you can call it resistance. Small islands of temporary social autonomy will resist, but the conditions for social solidarity have been cancelled by the pervading precarity. We should stop deceiving ourselves: the only resistance to global financial capitalism for the time being is the identitarian force of localism, identity, and fascism.

Les toiles de grand format deviennent des lieux de réflexion où le spectateur, ne se sentant pas menacé, est contraint de constater l'évolution de la nature. Fondamentalement, il m'importe que les supports et les techniques choisis favorisent la compréhension de mon travail, tant sur le plan formel que sur celui du contenu. À cela s'ajoute un intérêt pour le texte comme ponctuation ou ajout à mon écriture visuelle.
*The term "performance" is slippery even within relatively well-defined contexts. In today’s economy, it not only refers to the productivity of one’s labor but also to one’s actual, quasi-theatrical self-presentation, one’s self-performance in an economy where work has become more dependent on immaterial factors.

A bee's dance leads to far reaching speculations on content in the artwork of the naked ape.

As I work, I contemplate my sense of being. I can render anything and the process will break down details of a representation into discrete points of colour that evoke thoughts within me of the concrete limits of fate and the disintegration of physicality.
The second stream of my work began in the early 1990s as a result of my Brucebo award (a Swedish Award). This opportunity to spend a summer in Gotland living and working at the William Blair Bruce estate helped me to formulate a second approach to painting.
Thinking of how to make all these concepts more effective, I would suggest the idea of the "Intervenor": an autonomous outside voice who nonetheless has the right to act within the institution. Intervenors could not only act within the walls of the white cube, but could also directly intercede when it comes to matters of communication, events, bureaucracy, administration, and even the office space itself.

But what does death mean to us as a culture, and how do we deal with it? Growing up in El Salvador during the civil war in the late 70s, I was surrounded by death. There were corpses on the street on a daily basis. People that I knew intimately would be "disappeared," killed or forced to leave the country in fear for their lives. However, though its spectre hung in the air like a bad stench, I did not fully realize what death was all about until one night, during the wake for a friend’s dead brother. Looking at the corpse in the open casket, I felt compelled to touch it, to connect with this person. I reached out and touched the corpse’s arm. The body, cold and stiff like a slab of meat, was no longer animated. It was an object, an empty shell.
incorporating repeating patterns into her work, layering planes of dots, x’s, emoticons, and canvas weave over and in with expressionistic swaths of brushstrokes. While her work has often alluded to the image space of cinema and television, Humphries’s most recent work suggests the stacked and simultaneous planes of computer screens.

critical manner. Rather than acquiesce to the current calamity, this exhibition asks if it is not time to push back against the disciplinary dictates of the capitalist logic and, by use of artistic means, launch a rescue of the very notion of the social itself.

*_Natasha Ginwala and Vivian Ziherl—_*_*The Negative Floats: Questions of Earth Inheritance*_ <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/the-negative-floats-questions-of-earth-inheritance-2/> The question then remains, how might suffering manifest as aberrational phenomenon—not least as earth-image but also as impossible terrestrial formation? To borrow from Fernand Braudel, in what ways may landforms transfigure as events of interruption and be themselves "the dust of history?" Against the sedimentary backdrop of monopoly power, land may be found in circulatory appearances and as a force of eruptive displacement.
I have always been fascinated by the concept of time. What it might be, how it is perceived, how it is represented and what it symbolizes.
The artist Ahmet Öğüt, who has found himself participating in a number turning a biennial into an exposé on the transgressions of its funders. Potentially scaring those funders away for good when they realize they are in over their heads.
*The Centre for Contemporary Canadian Art* *The Canadian Art Database: *Canadian Artists Files
The exhibition includes two autonomous original projects that are presented for the first time worldwide in Athens. In the specific projects of the two artists, the well known Cypriot singer Alexia collaborates and participates multi-dimensionally (composition, singing, and acting). The exhibition is curated by the art theorist Dr. Sania Papa.
  James Lee Byars loved what was imaginary and fleeting, equating the ephemeral and the immaterial with the material and the everlasting. He was not just an artist, he was a magician, a visionary and a dandy who understood how to cast a spell over his audience.
Death leaves its mark everywhere around the world. Rich people and poor people, criminals and outstanding citizens, celebrities and "nobodies" are equally affected by it. It is ruthless and final.
The second issue of "Architecture as Intangible Infrastructure" will be released in September 2015 with essays and contributions from Beatriz Colomina, Bernard Khoury, Hu Fang, Ingo Niermann and Rem Koolhaas, Hans Ulrich Obrist in conversation with Hans Hollein, and others.

The concrete, repetitive nature of this work frees my imagination and provides many opportunities for happy accident and grace to influence the finished product.

The diversity of the artists chosen allows for a real mix of stylistic sequences: Benoit Broisat’s tracking-shot through the memory of a city; the psychedelic, algorithm-rich world of Ryoko Aoki and Zon Ito; Vidya Gastaldon’s electromagnetic waves; and Camille Henrot’s ghostly filmed graffiti. Others, like Roberto Cuoghi, tweak the basic aesthetic of the cartoon and its main protagonists, while Lionel Sabatte does the same for computer science with his computer-generated clips and Sammy Stein reworks the Gameboy as the support for an ancestral fable. Working in black and white, Ana Maria Millan & Andres Sandoval draw on B-movies, and Virginie Barre et Stephane Sautour reduce horror movies to a few key elements of mise en scene.
Includes the use of the "loop," narrative structures, sculptural installations/environments, and dialogues with complementary two-dimensional works. The New Genres Department at the San Francisco Art Institute has been a pioneer in performance, moving image, and installation, and a breeding ground for work at the intersection of the three mediums. This is a remarkable work being shown here for the first time in Canada. It is a reinterpretation of the twelve bronze animal heads, representing the traditional Chinese zodiac, that used to adorn the famous water clock at the imperial gardens of Yuanming Yuan in Beijing.
I wouldn't call what I do 'realistic' but something more like 'believable'. An intimate engagement with what I paint is essential. Even in non-landscape pieces like the still life in my show, I required intimacy with my subject. The art and books depicted are from my own collection. If I didn't actually own these pieces, but just copied them from an art book, it would have been an empty exercise. The collecting of the objects was part of the art-making process, many years in the making.
My work employs both photography and painting in the production of a distinct body of work. The resulting images exhibit characteristics of photography as an expression and poetic medium - a recording device of the 'real' - while at the same time addressing painting as a dimension to express and record the emotional states and memories of the inner (subconscious) world. The images of my art production are not literal or linear in structure, but are constructed from fragmented and repetitive pieces, and represent a narrative of time, place, and memory. The work attempts to question how these histories and images live in our conscious and unconscious memories and affect our ways of seeing and perception of reality. In this way, my work questions history, the construction of time as a linear process, and the distinction between history (external body) and memory (internal body) in the process of defining identity.
Marks, dots congregate, congeal and the line forms, accretes, wanders and so I follow it. " . . . the refuge of the road . . . "1

Although Rembrandt was one of the first artists to add tone by directly applying ink to some of his etching plates, it was Degas, at the end of the nineteenth century, who produced the first body of work in this medium. Since Degas, many artists* have made this method part of their working repertoire; but it is not until recently that the medium has been accorded the critical respect that it deserves.

Fast opens his film with an interview with the drone operator as he recounts his combat experiences of flying over Afghanistan and Pakistan. Speaking mostly off-camera, the drone operator details the psychological impact of engaging an enemy from thousands of miles away. Switching between documentary interview footage and fictionalized re-enactments, Fast creates a multifaceted and unstable sense of reality. Combined with surreal shots of suburban Nevada, the film offers a subtle exploration of how the use of drones is rapidly changing the politics, principles and personal experience of contemporary conflict. 

/It is in this sense that the image creates meaning, and one can say that this one created an expression: those of us who saw the photo and were affected by it are now able to chart the course of death walked by this child. Carter’s photo is an image of the isthmus that separates life from death. It is thus pain imagined, and pain transformed from an individual and private feeling to a shared and public one./

As part of his participation in Performa09, the third visual art performance biennial of New York City, artist Darius Miksys invites the parents of artists to a group meeting to ponder the unanswerable—how, why, and when did my child become an artist? The goal of this social interaction on November 21, 2-4 pm is not to solve this mystery, but rather to explore the generational move backward as a creative forward-looking exercise. Miksys is, after all, interested in exploring communicative models and turning the tables around.
*_Cathy Lee Crane—Letters to Harun_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/letters-to-harun/>
A safe buoy floating above a prominent dark mauve backdrop emerges as a real existing presence and uncompromising contradiction of the visual. The object enlightens itself to be a display of a deceiving construct, revealing its true form through traces of paint. In view of this, I carry out a performative exploration of duration and its relationship to ideas of time and space through a profound investigation of painting.The image of faded middle-class "coziness" is one that lies at the heart of her photos. The result is a compelling, funny and often disturbing body of work that explores unconscious emotions, desires and sexual compulsions, all unified by an aesthetic that vacillates between the banal and the fantastic. Issues related to madness and alienation take shape, exploring feelings of anxiety, displacement and loss of identity.

Kojève proclaimed that art would disappear in the universal homogenous state, and it probably did. No wonder funding is being pulled and artists are concerned with strategic withdrawal—everyone is bored sick of the waves of inflationary and depressive episodes of large-scale, bombastic zombie exhibitions. And yet swaths of participating artists pull out after realizing their works are being produced by a weapons manufacturer or the security company managing internment camps. It seems art does not end only because it has flowed into life, but also because its conditions have become too contradictory to be contained any longer. On the one hand, we might wonder whether a Sunni or Shia militia commander would say something similar about the internal contradictions of a puppet regime it seeks to topple. But, on the other hand, it is now being reported that the Sunni Isis militia is partly financed by antiquities taken from archeological digs in the crumbling state of
In earlier work I examined and produced more literal images of lesbian sex (/Sapphic Scenes/ and the /Bed of Roses/ projects). For this series I looked for sites to insert shadowy figures that, once discovered, shift the meaning of the images. The figures operate as fleeting apparitions of lesbians and lesbian sex populating the city. The characters are more or less gender identifiable. The photos present four viewpoints: that of the voyeur/passerby observing the women in various locations in the city; urban nightscapes that the lovers see in their walk through the city; and from each of the lovers’ positions.

Kester’s text leaves more troubling questions unaddressed: Who can "see" shifts in power? Just as you cannot "see," or for that matter witness, the workings (and embedded hierarchies) of a right, as Brown’s work so adeptly lays out, I would argue that attempting a diachronic analysis, as Kester calls for, must start with how the project articulates its own demands. them further, and hands them to you as they are. No one is trying to nationalize your desires into any kind of heroic totalitarian mythos. This is no small feat, considering that it is typical for people who fear for their safety and survival to seek out symbolic forms of belonging and togetherness that appear to stabilize their families and communities. People begin to ask for the nation, the race, the creed, the sectarian, the rooted, the indigenous. The old greatness must be restored. Sentimental resources are called in to keep the community together when material resources fall short.

La première occupe un espace carré au sol et est composée de neuf blocs placés à quelques centimètres les uns des autres, suivant un quadrillage régulier. Leurs faces externes sont blanchies, de façon inégale; les faces internes, brutes, laissent évident leur mode de construction. Ensemble, ils ne forment qu’un seul volume, fragmenté. Leurs dimensions sont à peu près semblables, leurs hauteurs varient un peu. Les dessus des blocs sont grossièrement hachurés, grugés, sillons ou vagues qui creusent dans la surface une dépression.
While Jackson Pollock’s leading role in the Abstract Expressionist movement has been widely discussed, less attention has been devoted to his black paintings period. In describing this pivotal phase in Pollock’s artistic trajectory, the critic and historian Michael Fried remarked that "[Pollock is] on the verge of an entirely new and different kind of painting . . . of virtually limitless potential." The black paintings assembled for the exhibition will include significant loans from US, Asian, and European collections, as well as important works drawn from the collections of the DMA and Tate. plates, an artist chronology, a black painting chronology, an exhibition checklist, and a number of, as yet, unpublished photographs by Hans Namuth of the black paintings.
*Rodríguez-Méndez *(b. 1968; As Neves, Pontevedra)  Rodríguez-Méndez is interested in sculpture, action and words as forms to be utilized to interfere in their semantics, thus creating expanded works that develop beyond the confines of their installation and form. Accordingly, he seeks to question the process of construction and delimitation of spaces and supports with these works. By employing several different languages and disciplines in his projects, unconnected from the influence of the exhibition space, he analyses the material principles intrinsic to the sculptures and to the essential and physical experience of man. He usually produces series, as repetition seems to contain all the inconsistencies of any work.

In summary, research into biotechnology and the use of compute applications led to a dystopian scenario rather than an utopian vision-a body of work centered on the question of, "What if all the color leaked out of nature?", leaving it colorless and black. Could this really happen? Probably not, but the work is intended to call attention to the experience of a natural world that is being indelibly altered by many different kinds of human intervention, especially the genetic modification of plants and animals. The boundaries between nature and culture become blurred as we remake nature from the inside out and the tempo of intervention accelerates.

In 1986 I turned to natural observation. The preceding work had reached some kind of conclusion. Making paintings from the direct observation of Nature was an honest and immediate way to rejuvenate myself and my work. The large oil paintings from 1987 to 1989 are composites of dozens of small studies painted on site. They are observations of the cycles of light and darkness, the movement of the wind and the elements over the sky, earth and water. Natural Phenomenon has taken the place of Human Narrative. The new work is more poetic and less literal. My hope is that the viewer will experience the emotional content of this work on a visceral level, like listening to music.
These paintings do not intend to lull the viewer with the security of images and text mediated through conventional photo-realism or French philosophy; rendering any content safely detached and academic. Nor is the viewer entertained with the wallpaper of abstract "compositions". These paintings are uneasy fragments existing between objective experience and subjective perception. The content of these paintings exists in the conceptual space between conventional representation and the boundaries of the invisible. March 21, 1995.
/*A New Way of Seeing*/ The reason to develop a new way of seeing is to alter our effect on the environment. Instead of seeing a tree we need to see the larger organism. Boundaries must be relinquished so that environment merges with self. The San provide an example of a culture that achieves this. It seems to me that the Western notion of the individual is really just a paradigm and that creative endeavour could reinvent the persona and by extension, the society. If the 'environment' were contained within the idea of the 'self' perhaps we would pay more attention to it and devise better structures of governance.
In terms of formats or medium I am currently working in parallel between digital prints, interactive websites, stitched and woven images and some 3d experiments. Each medium allows for different visual interpretation or information to be included, has different technical requirements and presents different historical or cultural contexts.
How does a life world already constitute a concrete money form? How do we understand and expand permanent incommensurability as the primary non-value of any form of social exchange? What figures does this produce as factors and variables in those exchanges, what does it draw into its vortex? Concentration, distraction, exhaustion, daydreaming, race, suffering, severe pain?
Whereas Stewart's first loyalty is with the internal economies of the pieces as independent parts of an ongoing body of work. Stewart is more particularly concerned with the 'mapping' of meanings. While the instrumentality of the displacement of image and meaning is evident, it is taken to be symptomatic rather than causal in a social context. Images or fragments may reappear in several paintings, but with different treatments, scale and atmosphere, they serve a variety of ends. So that a given piece may employ elements with differing natures or mechanisms of effect to create a new mapping of meaning or signification. It is this variety, and especially these ends which are examined.

The major artistic influences on my career have been: Emily Carr, Vincent Van Gogh, The Group of Seven, and several Chinese painters of the Sung Dynasty. When not painting, I'm an avid TV watcher, mostly cartoons, and reader of art, history and religion. As well, I write poetry and play the stock market.

manual work of mixing, shaping and presenting baked goods and sweets was a
I did well in the art course at Northern Vocational. Robert Short was my teacher. Over the years he's been an important influence on a lot of artists who emerged from that school. He was one of the first so-called liberal art teachers in that he encouraged students to experiment. For my generation this was extremely rare. I also remember Mrs. Curry, a sculpture teacher, who was something of a tyrant. But when I got my hands into clay and started mucking around, she softened and I learned a lot from her. Rodin was a particular enthusiasm of hers at a time when the Board of Education wouldn't have approved.

The paintings in my exhibition straddle an area between representation and abstraction. Unlike representation, they begin their lives as a series of completely random markings made from brush loads of left over paint from prior works. Yet as they evolve, they seem to suggest a figure/ground relationship. Unlike abstraction, a narrative becomes implied. Like the "new kid in the school yard", the paintings are inhabited by strange figures trying to adapt to the new world that they find themselves in.

Nada Prlja’s newly commissioned work /Subversion to Red/ takes the form of a performative round-table discussion titled Red Discussion.The event is conceived as a discussion between relevant thinkers and theorists who have been invited to analyse and critique various concepts within socialist / Marxist theory. The aim is to deconstruct former models (those no longer relevant to current social and political structures) and to propose aspects within them that may still be applicable today. During the event, various ideas and key words will been written onto a pentagonal table, which serves as a platform to build up and define a set of concepts and ideals that could be used as a guide for redefining contemporary society. The fundamental idea behind this project is to follow up by now legendary The Köln Show, a joint project by Cologne galleries, staged in their showrooms in 1990, presenting until then undiscovered young artists. On its way to establishing an up-to-date institution for contemporary art in Cologne, European Kunsthalle revisits this historic event in order to test the, at that time, highly successful model within the framework of todays debates about decentralised exhibition concepts and collaborative organisational structures. Against the background of discussing possible operative and spatial models for a Kunsthalle, Nicolaus Schafhausen, together with his team augmented by Florian Waldvogel, focuses on the current relationship between cultural Conceived of as a history and geography manual in the form of a game, Latifa Echakhch often makes use of the spaces in which she is invited to exhibit, finding clues to guide the production of a work specifically related to the site. In /Eivissa/ (2010), for instance, the Spanish playing cards used both in Spain and Morocco are seen from under pieces of the concrete platforms built in Eivissa during the Spanish Civil War to weigh down the tents of the Moroccans soldiers General Franco enlisted in his rebel army. The proximity of the elements, spaces and transaction rituals of two countries and cultures formulates a series of dialectics between play and dogma, the shared and the imposed, as well as between that which is understood to be fluid and transitory and that which declares itself definitive, though equally subject to decline.

capitalism encourages images that project what will inevitably be left in its wake: a dead world. And just as one can imagine (or see) patches of devastated and desolate land, a kind of localized post-extraction desertification, one can just as easily imagine this becoming a planetary condition: the globe as a rotating, dead lithosphere, coated in a fine dust of decomposing once-organic particles.

My mother always respected my father in somewhat the same way as I did: I found him heroic, almost a mythological figure. I remember that the big pinstriped Chicago-gangster pants he used to wear always had coins jingling in them, a sound that would have been at ear level when I stood up straight.

But the point that must be acknowledged here is that painting, even in its most idealized and essentialist aesthetics is not 'immaculately conceived’: — it is itself a technical invention, materially and manually produced to function as the dominant form of pictorial representation throughout most of the history that established its privileged position as the 'horizon of meaning’ in western high culture, that is, as 'the idea of the picture’; and that photographic representation continues this logos in a modernized mode of production. In the historical displacement of its representational function by the mechanical means of representation (photography, film, video, etc.) painting fell back on its histori-cally-evolved status as the ideal essentialist space of meaning — that of modernist abstraction. These works in part are shifting this idealist space of painting over to a technical, material discourse and thus to an 'expressive’ discourse filtered through mechanical process.

Hand knitting started it. From the beginning the process of transforming string into cloth has struck me as magical. And, over the years, that magical process has had its way with me, leading me from hobby to art. Knitting fills me with a sense of accomplishment and integrity, and has proven a most amenable vehicle for translating inner vision to outer reality.

/The characters framing the happenings in space are just as important as the event itself . . .  sometimes the frame is even more crucial. Look closer for details and suggestions of time passing, finding freedom within

*Clara Montoya* (b. 1974, Madrid)  /Superficie/ (Surface) aims to continue the line of work the artist
A la source du travail présenté ici, il y avait des mots, épars, qui ont servi à le structurer, mots qui ont une correspondance parallèle au travail, et qui renvoient à des images, à des concepts, en vrac; pris isolément, ou agglutinés, on peut y voir des clés, des indices, des amorces, ou rien du tout. Mots et collages comme: écart, éloignement, limite, fissure, anomalie, amas, stratification, incertitude, opposition . . .  opposition des termes, écarts et correspondances, imbrication des systèmes, précision du flou, stratification de sens . . .  Mots qui suggèrent que les pièces sont à la limite (de la sculpture, de la peinture, de l’installation), et seraient plutôt le reflet de formes connotées, entretenant un doute sur la pertinence des catégories habituelles issues de nos acquis culturels; que les pièces, à la fois précises et floues, jouent sur une frontière plus ou moins déterminée où l’opposition des termes se fond, où les systèmes s’imbriquent et où les contraires sont interdépendants, évoquant une forme de complexité diffuse. Ouverts et peu directifs, ces collages contiennent potentiellement une somme d’information, sorte de synthèse latente et non dogmatique qui laisse la pensée voguer d’une idée à l’autre sans se replier sur la précision. Par analogie, c’est peut-être ce qui évoque le mieux, d’une façon simple, la pensée visuelle, pensée globale, fonctionnant par images, qui saisit rapidement et entièrement les concepts, les rapports, les situations et les choses. Si la pensée verbale est la pensée de la précision et de l’analyse, puisqu’elle dissèque et interprète, la pensée visuelle serait celle d’une synthèse immédiate et englobante, non linéaire.
In recent years there has been a renewed interest in the work of the Austrian utopian philosopher Otto Neurath (1882-1945), in fields as various as fine art, design, philosophy, cultural theory and urban studies. With the After Neurath project Stroom poses the question what Neurath, this architect of modernity, this social engineer, can teach us today. The exhibition brings together a group of artists whose work engages with the implications of the work of Neurath. They investigate the possibilities of collectively building a better future, the unification of different fields of knowledge and emancipation through organisation. Subjects closely linked to the social-democratic ideals from the past, which now, at the start of the 21st century tend to be submerged in a culture of individualism, consumerism and indifference.

I began painting spiritual impressions and worked through stages where I would hear trees communicating feel wind spirits blend with the water movement and enjoy the ever-changing pigmentation in the plants

5. The negative is placed in direct contact with the paper, held down under a sheet of heavy glass. Platinum is so stable, that even in a photosensitive salt, it is reluctant to change. To expose a platinum print requires hundreds of times more energy than a silver print. The exposure time may vary from minutes to a full hour, depending upon many variables, due to the density of the negative.

Starlings are swirling in flocks and oscillating against a blue sky. The small specks of black create a community of form, a single body of communication, riding the currents of air where individuals cluster then disperse as a unified body of flapping wings.
The work of J.W.Stewart combines photographic and documentary material (photos, reproductions, maps, typeset texts, technical illustrations, graphs and charts, etc.) in a painterly context with effects of transparency and translucency and often feature attached assemblages and dimensional or sculptural supports.

This series was an attempt to reconcile all that. The seriality of Monet's project connected to the seriality of Yves Klein's. Yves Klein's performative figure seemed to connect to Gilles, the consumptive clown/artist. Both died young. Although known for his blue paintings, Yves Klein dealt with all the primaries. His paintings were a reiteration of Rodchenko's red yellow and blue monochromes, which in 1921 declared the death of painting. The first time this sentiment may have been uttered was in 1839, when the French painter Paul Delaroche was asked to prepare a committee report on the invention of the Daguerreotype to the French government.

For us humans, ever since we started living in time, there is no such thing as real-reality; always and only fictional-reality. Nancy Huston, /The Tale-Tellers/

Thinking about the ways in which humans intervene in nature leads to a lot of, "What if?" questions. For example, let's look at what 's happened to a variety of fruits, vegetables, chickens and other foods as a result of human intervention. It seems that much of the flavour has been leached out of many foods. Certainly, we can be sure that tastelessness isn't a quality that anyone wanted but it looks like that's what has occurred. It is an unintended byproduct of intervention in the natural world. *So what if, as a result of the stepped up pace of genetic meddling in the natural wold, all the leaked out of nature?* – adding a new dimension to dystopian scenarios envisioned by artists and others.
My mother always considered herself to be an atypical woman of her generation. Having assembled all the evidence, I’m not so sure any more. This Mary seems to melt into so many other Mary’s, so many other mothers, so many other women. Perhaps that observation is linked to this stage of my own life, when it has become the clearest that I am also my mother. Arlene Stamp Visit the web site component to this exhibition
Organized around the theme and title Animalia, Kim's exhibition explores the vast sphere of nature and the animal kingdom, often inverting its laws and collapsing the boundaries of living beings and inanimate objects. Refusing to accept the clear distinctions that separate realms of existence, Kim deftly employs animism, illusion and a deep sense of empathy in his works to reflect upon and transgress the social institutions that delineate natural order.re: http://www.e-flux.com/program/we-the-outsiders/
Engagement with the viewer is a primary focus for Marman and Borins and is initiated through the strong physical presence of their work. In many of their projects, electronic, kinetic and / or multimedia components serve to enhance the viewer’s reception of their art. Additionally, the beholder’s involvement is often intensified through the artist’s inclusion of interactive elements, inviting the viewer to become a participant in the work and creating two levels of reception: the participant and the observer.
Drawing on such sources, Emily Gove takes a humorous look at death and uses the idea of murder as a metaphor for competitiveness and treachery in female social interactions. Gove’s photographs draw inspiration from zombie films, pulp fiction novels and art history texts, combining these influences into a humorous and disturbing concoction wherein several characters are in the process of murdering one another. Whether the action takes place in a movie house, a construction site or an insurance office, the characters in the photographs are constantly engaged in the act of murder, with both victim and killer portrayed by the artist. The aspect ratio of the large-scale photographs is similar to that of wide-angle movies shot in Cinemascope. This is no accident, as Gove creates a film narrative that is told as a static image.
A ruin is always over, in spite of the fact that it necessarily holds fragments of history. Moreover, a ruin is not in front of us. Decay evolves next to us, not to say with us. That’s the reason why we can say that at the beginning, there is the ruin.

A first time collaboration between artist Fred McSherry and publisher Stéphane Danis, /Charles Baudelaire Long Dong Silver and Le petit prince/ is the most recent issue of Le muse secret, publishers of limited edition artist’s books and multiples exploring the taboo themes of sex, politics and religion. Modeled on the "pillow book", an early Asian diary form, this volume combines images and texts "borrowed" from high and popular cultural sources to test the presumed autonomy of moral, economic and aesthetic value systems.

Self-reflection on the process of production, which is a testimony to a form of modernist pathology, is even more accentuated in the second work of these related works, /El Taller/. Although it is a reprise of the first series (it consists of four canvases of the same dimensions and of the same studio photographed six years later) there are some fundamental differences: the photographs are in colour and the abstract segments in black and white, a reversal of the system in /Corner of the Studio/; there are four distinct photographs, while in the first series a single photograph was cut into four parts; and the imagery shows the actual process, materials and production of the canvases themselves, while the first showed only the space of future production.

MATHILDE TER HEJNE

Art should raise questions. The true artist helps the world by revealing mystic truths.
Developing If I Cant Dance . . .  with De Appel makes it possible to articulate a historical context for this legacy very precisely. Established in 1975, this art centre has a rich history of showing experimental art for over thirty years and a revived interest in its programming now. Archival documentation exploring this legacy from the late 70s and early 80s will be presented. These practices provide an interesting comparison to the vernacular used by artists to think through ideas of agency, singularity and political empowerment today. A complex and fascinating mathematics of the everyday, The Knowledge involves learning 320 routes or runs mapped within a six-mile radius of Charing Cross. Traveling approximately 26,000 miles across the city on Honda C90′s, knowledge students memorize a total of 30,000 streets. Calling over entails that after the completion of the days run[s], calling over as an ongoing process of repetition, memorization, rehearsal and navigation, articulated in a networked and non heirarchical manner.

116 x 89 cm
For this web site I have included work mostly from four one-person shows; /Fighters and Lovers/, 1982, /Man Makes Himself/, 1985, /MOVE/, 1985 and /The 1997 Manitoba Flood/, 2002. I have also included small grouping of pieces from other shows.
"I am breathing life into these images - I am giving back memories of time and place the aura and mystery that has been lost in the memory," says the artist. She continues to describe how her desire to paint her photographs "is actually a desire to authenticate or make unique a world that is fragmented and overexposed in the photographic image." Her manipulation of the original images from Sarah's archive of photographs allow her to reinterpret and distance herself from the personal, and "open the work to the viewer for a unique authoring of the trace with which individual identity is defined."

its contents got uploaded to the internet. Because more museums are being built today than at any other time in human history. 

Site is very important - broad 'scenic' landscape is akin to tourist post cards or snapshots. When I sketch an unfamiliar site, I feel that I fail to catch its essence. I prefer a site that I can revisit often and get to know intimately. This enables me to go beyond impressionism to a more holistic approach.

*Grant Kester—The Sound of Breaking Glass, Part I: Spontaneity and Consciousness in Revolutionary Theory* <http://e-flux.com/journal/view/270> During periods of political repression, the relationship between aesthetics and politics, and between private and public expression, undergoes both erosion and reconsolidation.

I'd started to paint more and more on my own. My works were still illustrations, but they started to get expansive and more experimental. I was living alone in a studio. I had left home and had a little garret. I previously painted imitation Van Gogh's and I took my new work back to Jack Bush for critiques. I know now that the works were atrocious. Bush gave me great advice, while at the same time encouraging and confusing me. He said, 'Take a look at the work of this young guy, Tom Hodgson, and paint like that.' I said, 'I don't want to copy anybody.' He replied, 'You paint like that now, because you're not going to for long, you've got to break through; you don't know what you're doing; Tom is young, like you.' (Tom is a little older than me but not all that much, and he has kept a unique youthful vitality in his work to this day.) Bush said, 'You're a young guy, paint like you are!' So I did. I took him literally and went and checked out all the Tom Hodgson paintings that were at Roberts Gallery. I'd never met Tom; he was already a practicing designer and an illustrator. So I started to do a few 'Tom Hodgsons'.
Painting is a perceptually abstract construction. Paintings are visible as translations of sensory memory within the biological structure of the brain. But they are viewed and reconstructed in the mind's eye. Painting's sensual quality of colour and tactility act as emotional transmitters, re-attaching our isolated psyches to the spiritual identity of our species.
Above it all, Levy remains fully aware of the power of his own objects. His criticism of the art-world lies in their tendency to get lost in art-historical references and comparisons rather than celebrating the pure creation and endurance of the solid objects.
But first, how did this happen? How did a form of communication—developed in the late 1950s with a well-funded US Defense Department initiative in response to the Sputnik threat, then blossoming in the hands of engineer-entrepreneurs in the Silicon Valley of the 1970s into the center of accelerated hyper-capitalism in the 1990s—evolve to become a strange hybrid of a free press, judiciary, and public market?
In 1980, the Feminine Principle, in the guise of the Virgin and the Mother-Goddess, surfaces in my paintings. I had been studying the writing of Carl Jung and Eric Neuman since 1976 and was aware of the recurring Archetypes in the historical religions of the world since the Paleolithic "Venuses". I exhibited a series of paintings depicting mainly the Christian Virgin in contemporary environments at Mercer Union titled /Madonna/ in 1981.

By revisiting past "Views" exhibitions and their commissioned contributions, the invited artists will mainly focus on "updating" the pieces commissioned at that time as well as their artistic practices. This process will enable the artists to highlight the most interesting phenomena and urgent problems they deal with. /Common Affairs/ will present artistic perspectives on the shifts and changes in the Polish and the international art scene, from the "long nineties" up to the present day. It will promote positions that deal with the history and politics of memory and representation, with transformation and approaches to change.
Availing itself of the latest developments in computer technology, animation is now moving into new spaces as part of a cultural current – videogames, mangas – that has radically changed our relationship to the drawn moving image. The visual artists chosen for this exhibition bring a free hand to the usual rules and creative approaches, offering brief, pseudo-naive narrative formats characterised by experimentation with hybrid techniques.
The Artist represents a young, naked and exhausted woman fighting with her struggles personified by a frightfully leering, undefined mask overlooking her. With her left hand, she hides a bloody sword and presents a wound on the same side. The mask threatens the young lady, watching her steadily and relentlessly. The lady is desperate, temporarily unable to overcome her sense of bewilderment and duress; She tried to kill her fears, but couldn't!

Duchamp's interest in Eros and Thanatos, love and death is a theme that connects there two exhibition ideas. With "Patisserie Duchamp" I wish to present an exhibition that has the appearance of a Museum-like enterprise to engage, critique and parody. The idea of making work that accumulates and exceeds the display space of its container as museums do is evident in my "boîte en valise" Athens (1987-1996) and Vancouver (1991-1994) /Sites and Place Names/ projects. Likewise, /May I Smoke / Puis-je fumer/ is a body of work that includes charcoal and graphite drawings, photographs, wood sculptures, and installation work.

Influenced by native thought exploring my Celtic background I became aware of a common rhythm flowing through nature, the ancients, and earthmother
By the time I was fifteen, having flunked my first year in high school, my parents gave in. They took the position that art would at least give me a vocation. I loved art, I loved science, and I loved working in the carpentry and machine shops - all that satisfying uses of hands, putting it together, the building of things. As for my academic education, I continuously read and studied those subjects that obsessed me most.

Many of Yeats’ finest paintings from private and public collections, including those of The National Gallery of Ireland, Crawford Art Gallery experts, his oeuvre remains largely unknown to a broader public.

In an era when Japan’s underground was reaching a fever pitch, Terayama was a crucial player in a complex network of creative expression, encompassing such countercultural legends as singer Akihiro Miwa, photographer Daido Moriyama and graphic artist Tadanori Yokoo. A tribute to this 'many-headed’ artist, this survey centres both on his astonishing film and video work and his trailblazing shifts through varied media and performance. The series includes a symposium on Terayama’s transmedia work and a live cinema performance in the Turbine Hall. Terayama always made work that was interrelated, often producing visionary and unexpected outcomes in whatever his chosen form.

This timeline wills itself to stay as precise as possible in terms of dates, names, observations, and comparisons. Learning from HF: each sentence—recorded, pictured, drawn, written, or spoken—is potentially a (never complete) archive of books and films as much as of thoughts and gestures.
    John Bentley Mays, "Evans Gives Rigid Geometry a New Push", The     Globe and Mail (Sept 18, 1980).

Given the present social divisions of labour, our work attempts to bridge two audiences. Working people and those in the arts. We feel that it is not only important to articulate the concerns and experience of working and community life, but that it should also be able to stand up to the sophistication of corporate culture and take into account the complexities of cultural representation.

Monotype is a medium that remains unfamiliar to many people as a form of visual expression. Simply put, a monotype is a unique impression painted directly on a non-porous surface, such as glass or a metal plate, and then transferred to paper by use of a printing press. Because the working surface is smooth and non-absorbent, paint can be laid down, wiped away or added, smudged or smeared using anything at hand -- roller, brush, rag, Q-tip, even fingers -- until the decision is made to print. One of the beauties of this method is that it freely incorporates the immediacy of drawing and making marks with tones and washes usually associated with watercolour, as well as the possibility of building up a more opaque colour as in oil painting or gouache.

Dans ma pratique artistique, je m'intéresse à la manière dont nous percevons et construisons le réel en y projetant nos désirs, en transgressant la réalité par la fabrication de merveilleux par la psyché. Mon travail se nourrit principalement d'expériences subjectives en faisant référence aux espaces mentaux utopiques, aux paysages imaginaires, à l'idée d'exotisme, au désir amoureux, à la fantasmagorie, à l'errance onirique par exemple. À l'image des expériences d'illusions et de désillusions dont est parsemée l'existence, je cherche à produire dans mes œuvres une oscillation entre le plaisir de l'illusion esthétique et sa défaillance, entre une vision idéalisée et une banalité. Mon travail évoque la vulnérabilité humaine devant la précarité de ce que nous cherchons à circonscrire comme étant le réel, devant l'inévitable hiatus entre les désirs et la réalité.
In the project, /Estas Ruinas que ves/, Mariana Castillo Deball examines Mexicos complex relationship with its past through her documentary investigation of contemporary archeological practices. /Estas Ruinas que ves/ examines the context of archaeology and the life of archeological artifacts, exploring how they are presented and animated in varied contexts, and how they are interpreted and defined. Her installation consists of three components: an archive displaying her photography, a museum setting devoid of objects, and a publication that ties all these elements together. Consisting of two separate publications: one in English and the other in Spanish, /Translated Catalogue and // y Catálogo traducido examines the intricacies of art and the subject of translation. The artist Carla Zaccagnini creates publications that are works of art in-and-of themselvesblurring the line between visual arts and literatureas they contain images of artwork and essays relating to the images themselves. These catalogues are distributed to the audience in order to establish a more intimate, prolonged experience with the work. The Holy Artwork
Golden to the touch. I am well formed, And practically take care of myself.

These works were initially inspired by Sylvia Earle's book /Sea Changes/ and then through further research on tectonic plates, mountains and creatures of the sea. The creatures of the deep sea, ocean mountain ranges and the process of bio-luminescence are the main concepts behind the images. The movement in these works reflect the experience I had when snorkelling on the great Caribbean reef of being pulled and pushed involuntarily by the power of the ocean. Technically these paintings have expanded in the use of a variety of applications using scrapers, poured paint and over lays on prepared textures. I love these paintings as they were a joy to make. I was submersed in their making.

Monumentaries are historical buildings that have been purposefully altered post facto in order to influence our perception and conception of them. Any careful observer of historic buildings knows that, in order to keep them standing over the centuries, some measure of alteration is always necessary, but that doesn’t make every monument a monumentary. I want to distinguish between alterations due to low-level maintenance, like replacing a couple shingles to fix a leaky roof, and alterations made for editorial reasons, like replacing a metal roof with clay shingles in order to create a more historically accurate image of the building at the moment of original construction. Only the latter type of alteration is an intentional attempt to turn the monument into a monumentary.

*Erreakzioa-Reacción*, a collective formed by artists Azucena Vieites and Estíbaliz Sádaba, arose in 1994 as a space for developing projects between art, education and knowledge production around feminism. This group has constituted a pioneering initiative in Spain, as their fanzines introduced key texts and practices in a time that feminism was still entering Spanish Academia.

A discussion on the contested terrain of open source culture online, and how new models and practices offer innovative artistic and political possibilities to some, and questionable author- and ownership complications to others. Panelists from different disciplines and backgrounds will explore the effects of online platforms such as Wikipedia and delicious on culture and offline systems of knowledge, as well as current challenges to open source principles such as net neutrality. Presented in collaboration with Rhizome.  two themes.The transforming identity of Arab women is represented in Moroccan-born *Lalla Essaydi*’s large-scale, calligraphic works, /*Les Femmes du Maroc*/, showing at Anya Tish Gallery, March 7 – April 5, 2008. www.anytishgallery.com <http://www.anytishgallery.com/>

The works are a culmination of ideas, images and symbols that come together in an intuitive manner -- guided by a sense of rightness -- they belong together.
The technical diagrams and schematic illustrations when taken apart from their sources, 'edited' and stripped of their original meaning can be seen as pure drawing or may seem to take on obscure, mysterious, or gnostic qualities. There is an awareness at work of the mutability of signs. The ambiguity of the references' symbolic value is exploited by their rearrangement within the work. In these works, rather than being decried or protested, the ambivalence and distortion of signs and symbols are accepted as given, noted in passing, and used to further the work's proposition or theme.
I'd like to think of my new work as documenting the art world at a time when it is has reached a peak in its production of sheer materiality, with its crowded art schools and overflowing biennials, art fairs and hedge-fund collections.
*An Outline: Christos Dikeakos* This exhibition proposal has been formulated from an ongoing work that dates from 1974/1994 – a body of work that was left in a time capsule, in storage, and the ideas and sketches of my unfinished Masters Thesis on the Large Glass by Marcel Duchamp – with another related work, /May I Smoke / Puis-je fumer/, which is also aligned to Duchamp and my preoccupation with cigar smoking as a working studio pastime/activity and pseudo addiction.

My earliest works with computers pre-dated most of the the graphical features that we take for granted today, so that I had to develop my own software, as in "Autobiography", which is where I first became interested how digital images are formed, i.e. with pixels, and that if the image is enlarged enough we are left with pixelization. Pixelization mirrors so nicely the modern sense that if we look closely enough at physical reality, it disappears. In 1994/1995 I made several prints in which I tried to find a graphic language for representing "pixelized" images. In 1998 I made a series of woodblocks based on digitized images from Edweard Muybridge, which grew out of my web site "Animal Locomotion", for which Muybridge was the starting point. I continued to explore ways of representing the zoomed digitized image. These woodcuts have twice won awards at the Boston Printmakers' North American Print Biennial. I exhibited them at the International Print Center New York, at the 2003 Print Biennial of The Print Club, Philadelphia, and elsewhere.

Wangechi Mutu has transformed the *Deutsche Guggenheim* into a fascinating environment that involves all senses. The show’s curator Friedhelm Hütte, Global Head of Art, Deutsche Bank, introduces her work.

Ric: Malevich never painted a true square in his whole life. R: It was the idea of a square. Ric: I measure things out. The propositions arise out of consistency with my personality . . .  I think I've come to measure as a matter habit.
What is important to me in these works, as the outcome of a formal experiment in effect, is that this optical complexity derives from a few direct, opaque, almost granular (in the sense that the illu-sion of deep space is, upon close inspection, confounded by the clearly visible grain of the canvas sur-face) technical devices — a self-reflexive, theoretically problematic visuality produced by an economy of means This opticality engages the devices which produce it. This is a 'process of seeing which invites the spectator to become an 'optical producer’ as well as spectator — creating a theater for contemplation upon the act of seeing and the mechanics of representation. This interactive drama plays out what is essential to all radical pictorial art, not the formulation of frozen iconic emblems that 'illustrate’ ideas, but the active recognition (I stress the dynamic aspect here — 'seeing it new’) in the 'minds eye’ during the contemplation of pictorial art of our own comparative experiences of the visual complexity of everyday life. New pictorial art provides the 'codes’ for experience. It tunes the eye. This fundamental function is the 'grounding’ of experiential rationality. As such it is truly classical, but also modern in its experimental self-consciousness, so that the process of seeing itself comes again under examination as a subject for pictorial art — as it did during the experiment with linear perspectival systems of representation as formulated by Alberti in the 18th century, and the dissolution of these perspective systems in the evolution of modernist abstraction, in particular during the early years of cubism.

Since Fukuyama wrote his essay, he has been considered primarily a free-market ideologist seizing an early chance to declare the dismantling of the Soviet Union as the definitive moral victory of Western capitalist democracy—a kind of master ideology to end all ideologies. But those who once disregarded him should now look more closely at his essay, because it is absolutely prophetic. Of course, Fukuyama was not only writing as an intellectual, but also as a senior policymaker at the US State Department and a former analyst at the RAND Corporation. And while his essay did not officially reflect the views of the American state, it was nevertheless written by a man who was not only close to power, but also possessed the means to implement his declarations. So if it comes across as prophetic, it wouldn’t be a coincidence. The essay now reads as a crystal-clear blueprint for a peculiarly murky apolitical nonideological condition that has proven to be incredibly difficult to work from—particularly for artists.
While the 'attitude' towards the empirical here is difficult to identify in formal terms, integral to Evan's best painting is what we might well term an 'existential' claim . . . that is based on, and implicit in, and empirical methodology and an intuitive ethic . . . to descend into the world of our concrete, lived experiences, which means returning to our experiences in a pre-objective world. Evan's painting language may be said to equate with a sort of "descensional reflection."

For the completion of my "Last Pony" project, I started working with a photograph of the painting just as it was being finished in the studio, standing on paint buckets on the floor. Examining that image in a digital program, I could see the wide array of colour schemes I could have used for the original painting. The computer, that is, provided options — "colourways" to use a term from commercial textile production — that were almost unavailable in a traditional studio.
The weight of these unforeseen challenges have produced a peculiar moment of social upheaval marked by a nagging sense of stasis—a feeling that, in spite of constant pushing, nothing is in fact moving, or that we are collectively going in circles. This makes it necessary to reluctantly face up to a choice that the current situation poses: whether to religiously believe in a general historical movement towards a change for the better, or resolve ourselves with the fact that things will always remain the same. But this is a false binary.
The self, terrible and constant, is for me the subject matter of painting.

"The building where the Fondazione’s programme has evolved has its roots deep in the industrial heart of the city. A place made of walls, divisions and memories that offered the challenge for a confrontation with oneself, with one’s ability and willingness to cross the barriers, physically, conceptually and politically, calling oneself into question to overcome the logic of distance and separation. The multiplicity of points of view has made it possible not only to seek to look for answers but above all to recognise the uncertainties. Artists are experts in accelerating the important issues that arise from being human. They strip down culture to make it appear as it really is."  –Beatrice Merz initiating new curatorial practices by inviting the audience to act and react; combining knowledge and sensory experiments; anticipating and explaining social, ecological, and philosophical changes… through the use of a remarkably broad variety of reproducible media, ranging from sound, video, photographs and slide projections to prints, silkscreens and tapestries.

Researching 1960s magazine interviews of Duchamp I came across a testimonial wherein Duchamp stated that he was more influenced by the writer Raymond Roussel (1877-1933) than modern painters. As an Art history student I noticed his literary and written approach – the ironies and meta ironies of language – was the work of an outsider, independent artist with an autonomous streak. And for most of his life, he had a studied disdain for, and avoided the artistic public. Art, for Duchamp, appeared to function at the service of the mind. He produced a body of distinct and unique aesthetic, which I have taken the liberty to rework, and indeed, Duchamp provided something of a license for others to do so. While visiting Lyon I noticed a shop named "Patisserie Duchamp". As a found sign and having the appearance of an epiphany I was reminded of Duchamp's miniature boxed editions of his canonic works, his /boîte en valise/. This edition could be considered as Duchamp's embellishments for sale at the time, at a reasonable price – delicious, mind provoking and eye catching, like patisserie. With Duchamp's passing I would then become the pâtissier, the pastry cook. This accidental encounter became the inspiration to complete my work many years later. The work is an edition of two of 20 photo collages in a clamshell folding box using the illustrations of /The Complete Works of Marcel Duchamp/ by Arturo Schwarz as a source.
*_Ute Holl—Farocki’s Cinematic Historiography: Reconstructing the Visible_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/farockis-cinematic-historiography-reconstructing-the-visible/> Extremely well acquainted with historical and contemporary systems of thought, Farocki has written on historical materialism, semiotics, and structuralism, but has defied all of them in filmic discourse.

//And by its formless spawning fury wrecked

Conceptual
could conclude from this is that if we can speak of the art of the world fair in terms of propaganda—keeping the Venice Biennale in mind as our starting point—we should do so not from the superstructural role of the artwork itself, which serves mainly as a decorative function of ideals of civilization and innovation, but in relation to the underlying uncontested base that facilitates this exchange of goods. A further, more interesting conclusion could be drawn relating the United Arab Emirates to the doctrine of democratism, a political construct that dispenses actual electoral, parliamentary representation. 

The Argentinian architects Gustavo Dieguez and Lucas Gilardi, who operate the architecture firm A77, define their role as architects differently. They often attend to their building—mostly through infrastructural interventions—over long periods of time. They always return to the building process to discuss improvements with the dwellers before rebuilding or adding to the structures. On the Plaza Parque Patricios they built their wooden structure El gran Aula, which was composed of modules and embodied the idea of an "open school." Each module was used to teach something: photography, design, music, cooking. In the case of El gran Aula, the building isn’t a formally defined sculpture, but rather an open framework for various forms of action, occupation, and implantation.  
We have a soft spot for people, for our own humanity. We learn to nurture this soft spot through art, through philosophy, through democracy, through our notions of justice or the rights of humans. We learn about the good in the things that are done by the people, for the people, through the people, in the name of the people.
Did you ever feel like an old bag in front of a work of art?

So I carve landscapes out of books and I paint Romantic landscapes. Mountains of disused knowledge return to what they really are: mountains. They erode a bit more and they become hills. Then they flatten and become fields where apparently nothing is happening. Piles of obsolete encyclopedias return to that which does not need to say anything, that which simply IS. Fogs and clouds erase everything we know, everything we think we are.
History is coming back, but not in the way we understood it in the idealist tradition. If Kojève’s universal homogenous state (which is probably also the EU) is characterized by unbearable boredom and stagnation, it starts to make sense that the only political horizon available to not only the wishy-washy centrists of electoral democracies, but also to the uprisings and Occupy movements of recent years, was liberal democracy in its present form. And yet we are increasingly bumping up against the utter failure of liberal democracy to account for the bankers and corrupt regimes who commit their worst crimes from within the logic of economic freedom and electoral democracy. So even as we feel the people around us becoming more comfortable making racist remarks, we also start to sense our political consciousness shifting, because it seems clear that the consolidation of free-market democracy is starting to buckle completely. It might be that we are only now seeing how it was a Ponzi scheme all along. History is not beginning again, because it never really ended. Rather, the idea of a homogenous system built on idealism has become unsustainable and has given way to the many identitarian battles that it has had to suppress in order to keep itself going. Only the end of history is ending.
I became aware of how I moved through space very early in this process and now often choose my ways carefully in view of this awareness of doing these mostly mundane tasks. But I never just go out to 'make tracks' (as others have done). I have uploaded one of my more interesting run to a website, where runners share their favourite runs from all over the world, and was surprised that they were mostly not very interesting visually.
In /Zip-locks/, I collected an 'artifact’ each day for one year from January 1 to December 31, 2000, and placed it with a tag in a zip-lock bag. The rules were the object had to cross my path on the day indicated on the tag and had to fit in the bag. The collection of 365 zip-locks documents the first year of the 21st century through material culture of the everyday. I spent part of that year in Italy where I began an accompanying series of small watercolours. /Italian Artifacts/ juxtaposes Etruscan artifacts, coats of arms, and flora and fauna with tiny collage elements from contemporary (tourist) culture. Some of these 'artifacts’ ended up in the zip-lock bags.

Smoking tobacco has played a role in art both as an inspiration and as a psychoactive mood altering substance since it took acceptance in 17th century Europe. In an unconscious way, an entire Western civilization used the devices of tobacco and coffee, which produced mind-altering shifts that registered in the workings and experiences of the brain. Needless to say the brain has for centuries relied on smoking as a craving and pleasure addiction. Cigar smoke especially since the early twentieth century was the air, which "stank" of the noteworthy company of artists' egos in public cafes and restaurants. Now in the twenty-first century, we are witnessing the end of tobacco as a psychoactive force; it is prohibited in public places, marking a /fin de siècle/. The title /May I Smoke / Puis-je fumer/, therefore is a grammatically potential optative with a less positive expression of the future or the present, requiring the permission of others, as it is no longer a desirable or imperative action.

The first work, /Corner of the Studio/, was completed in march 1993. Although in fact in the spring of 1987, at the time that I photographed it, I was producing several large canvases (for instance, /My Heroes in the Streets/), none of this work is visible in the image. Therefore, what is represented in this earlier work is more a space for thinking than production itself. In contrast, the second series, /El Taller/, was photographed in the same studio space (to the right of the windows visible in /Corner of the Studio/) and is in effect a reprise, a 'correction’ of the intellectual ambience of the first work by emphasizing the physical fabrication of the work itself, and thus the studio as a working space’ (in spanish, '/El Taller/’).
figurative

The Crimes Against Animality Series are monumental Social Conscience paintings that explore human and animal histories. Ambient soundtracks are created in Garageband using my voice and other sound effects. Ultrasound directional speakers transmit the sound in a narrow 1-foot beam. 'Xenotransplant', (2011) references failed experiments to farm interspecies organs. Genetically modified pig organs were grafted onto baboons, who host the organs until transplantation into humans. The soundtrack consists of interior body sounds overlaid with conversation about the experiment and baboons (Quicktime 49min available on my website using Safari). Additional subjects in this series include shark finning, fracking, Aversion Therapy, female genital mutilation, farm animal exploitation, genetically modified food, rhino horn trade and other topics of concern.
De Wit shows us a hilarious, slightly ominous and mostly politically incorrect world of shadows. *His assembled sculptures are created through an associative process and have enormous dynamism, as if they could jump right off their plinth.* What distinguishes this artist from the rest is his tempestuous imagination and conceptual power. Comically, provokingly and sometimes even poignantly, De Wit puts everything into perspective and leaves it open as far as possible, with regard to both form and content. between spiritual customs and modernization.
Identity isn't given once and for all: it is built up and changes throughout a person's lifetime. Amin Maalouf, /In the Name of Identity/

Something else also happened around the time of Fukuyama’s proclamation. Because another side of the end of history might have to do not only with the collapse of a certain notion of humanist progress but also with a whole other shift in temporality that made it doubly unsustainable. And it also took its structure from the liberal tradition as well as the US military. It has to do with radical advances in communication technologies that we also call the internet. In fact, Fukuyama’s mistake may have been in seeing a global Pax Americana in traditional geopolitical terms, when in fact the end of history is then not only the end of a certain era of political thought but also the beginning of a new phase of extreme spatial and temporal compression. It is marked by a perpetual sense of dislocation that alters the way we experience places and events, and by extension the way time and causality function—certainly not in terms of any accumulative continuity that would make historicization possible. Instead, everything happens as if simultaneously, even contemporaneously. We thought Fukuyama was talking about ideology, but it was also about how we stabilize an idea of one thing following another in the most basic sense.

After forty-five years of painting in this direction a change
Technically, I have tried to bring a "hand painted/drawn" look to this very technical process. The image has been worked extensively for expressive purposes rather than reality issues usually attached to photography. In some of the images a state of 'creation' has been attempted in 'animating' the image.
At the 53rd International Art Exhibition – La Biennale di Venezia *Chile will be represented by the work of artist Iván Navarro.*
Automobiles & Methods of Logic Banking and Erotica Bookkeeping and the Cosmos Canada and First Nations Christianity, Gender & The Wild Kingdom The CIA Mountain Crochet and Artificial Intelligence Darwin & the Mafia The Development of Meaning The Ethics of Krupp Fish and the Stock Market First Nations and the Atlas Federalism and Needlework Fertility and Motherhood Film & TV Game Shows Genetics & Cricket J.F.K & Imperialism A History of Art & The Church (2 Volumes) Hymns and Steel Home Decoration and Sexology Knowledge (22 Volumes) Larousse Medical (2 Volumes) L.B.J. & The Great New Society Locomotives & Christianity Lord Protector Management, WWII, and the Body Microeconomics Planet Moon Practical Yoga and Desire Psychology & Aircraft Real Estate and WWI Recipes for Success R.M. Nixon & Communism Steel Making and Celebrities Thermodynamics and Pro Football Trivia and World Records U.S.S.R Vietnam Wages, Gambling & Exercise

The "Views" jury honors Iza Tarasewicz for "the artist’s consistence in shaping her own, mature and original artistic language; for exploring matter and primal processes; for reviving art’s cognitive dimension." Iza Tarasewicz (b. 1981) is a sculptor, draughtswoman, and performer. Her objects and their arrangement elude the opposition between the natural and the artificial. As part of complex practices of interpreting, collecting, deconstructing, and reorganizing material, social, historical, and ideological systems, she attentively tests and
Since her 2005 installation titled /Elle a �t� �lev�e dans du coton/, the use of white in her work refers to the death of someone close and to an Asian symbolism where white is associated with death and mourning. In Asia, death is seen as the inevitable passage to a new world, a rebirth, evoking purity.
With this work I hoped to make more complex what seemed to me a certain feminist polemic in my earlier work.

When I was a child, there were creative people in my family: a great aunt who painted pottery; my mother who did little watercolours under instruction at school and my father who was a photographer at one time, and serious about his work. But I never had a relative who was an artist /per se/. Actually, my grandmother was quite a strong influence throughout my life. She was an artist in the sense that she liked landscaping the grounds of our house, which were considerable, given the fact that we lived in the centre of the town of Niagara Falls on half an acre. She had ponds made; there was a wood; there was an old barn in the back of the house. It was like an oasis of quiet
After Yonge Street, I lived on Keewatin Avenue, a cul-de-sac that backed on a Jewish cemetery. At its end was what we called 'Sherwood Forest,' completely untouched wild bush. I had real bows and arrows but I was trained not to shoot friends or other animals out of season. I learned to keep my hunting knife sharp, build a good campfire, and tell one owl from another. We'd go out at night, sit silently in the bush and listen for an owl. I used to come home with quart baskets full of fresh watercress every spring from the little stream that flowed through there. Now the stream is polluted and the forest is a landscaped park.

Further, the Acrylics of the /Plan for Painting/ Series beginning with No. 24 objectively, and indidually represent different stages in the formation of a diverse range of unique colour schemes. That means a particular cycle of chromatic circumstances is made visible by maintaining a continuity throughout the series regarding its serial format. That, in combination with the technique of painting seventy-five Artists' Finity Acrylic Colours on what ostensibly looks like raw linen results in a wide variation in colour sensation and stage in the movement of colours results in a unique perceptual scheme. In addition, the formal components of the nine squares are comprised of a self-contained repetition of nine consecutive coloured strips complete the chromatic sequence. Lastly, the four short and four long coloured strips that follow the chromatic sequence, and the formal multiplicity of layered configuration of a particular scheme. In that, viewers are provided with the critical means to identity the extent of their subjective experience in relation to their self-conscious perception of the characteristic limit (s) of a particular work in the series.

In my work I combine photography with textiles. I have always been drawn toward patterned surfaces, and particularly textiles in which pattern is inherent. Initially, it was simply visual pleasure that entranced me; years later, through study, I am impressed and fascinated by the language of pattern. It can identify a people, a region from which they come, as well as a person's age, profession and social status within a society. Using both patterns occurring in nature and from existing textiles, I create a language that informs the photographed subjects which are juxtaposed with backgrounds of pattern.

The exhibition at Malmö Konsthall of works by Jacob Dahlgren and Katarina Löfström presents two separate artists. But between their works interesting encounters arise aesthetic, formal, and in terms of content not least between the concrete, the representative, and the abstract. The two artists works are primarily neither theoretical nor conceptual but /visual/ and emotional. A central aspect of the exhibition is the way in which things that are apparently simple become through their transformation by the artist and our own perception (and imagination) something sensual, poetic and significant. By creating what we experience as abstract images, the artists on the one hand set us free from the limiting literalness of pure representation and make possible narratives (and emotions) with multiple layers of meaning in us, the observers. On the other hand, the artists also stress the concrete aspects (materials and form) as well as the fragmentarily representative, which is their way of simultaneously presenting content and creating a starting point for our interpretation. Jacob Dahlgren is a painter and sculptor but he works to a large extent without the traditional materials of painting and sculpture. Instead, his abstract works consist of objects which surround us in our everyday life. They might be coat-hangers, coffee mugs, lamps, or, as in this exhibition at Malmö Konsthall, a range of different materials. Arranged (for instance stacked on top of one another), the individual objects lose their intended function, their original value, and become part of something completely new. They become materials with which to paint; they become colours and shapes which form the basis of exciting visual experiences and a kind of open and democratic aesthetics which challenges our ingrained ideas. By deliberately misunderstanding one of Marcel Duchamps famous arguments, we can develop the (possibly a provocative) idea that Jacob Dahlgrens work at Malmö Konsthall is a form of painting. For Duchamps simple observation that even the most complex painting is constructed of pre-existing materials (and is therefore to be regarded as a readymade), opens up the logical possibility of in fact being able to paint even with unconventional forms of paint in principle with anything at all. But one swallow does not make a summer , nor does one dishcloth make a painting.

This exhibition attempts to question how what we see and perceive is affected by the histories and images that live in our conscious and unconscious memories. Time and physical being are explored by Sarah Nind in paysages fragiles through a personal inventory of collected imagery, including images of environmental destruction from the artist's birth place in South-East Asia. The artist uses photographs, developed on a photo-sensitized mylar sheet (ortholith film), and painted with oil paints.

ALBUM/TRACKS B may refer to a photo album which, empty at first, tells a "(hi)story" only once it is filled with pictures, a story to look at, read, and interpret from ever new points of view. The work of Ana Torfs (born in 1963, lives in Brussels) could also be understood as a tribute to certain personalities and events from history, literature, and film whose tracks— hence the title—and traces the artist pursues and endows with new life. development to the sewing machine—and of formal and informal use. The flag serves as a vehicle for political-identical argumentation; but it should also be considered in its materiality—as hardware. 

The museum may now be assuming a new function in the network. It is being reformatted as a recording device, a flexible memory machine that can store culture like a bank, artworks like a storefront, politics in the form of data. And each of these can be exchanged with one another as currency: the political movement can be turned into an activist archive, sold as an artwork, then exhibited as data, then sealed off in a vault with cultural artifacts for safe keeping. Museums in China are built without staff or contents to fill them long after they are constructed. Others exist online, leaving their buildings to rot. But it would be completely wrong to say that these are the dying gasps of another old-fashioned, overweight institution suffering an identity crisis after

The project is accompanied by the essay of Korean novelist Yeon-Su Kim whose unique viewpoint and insights have come to represent the struggles and aspirations of the oughts.

The local oaks in High Park and trees seen when camping and hiking were my muse for four years. My goal was to eliminate the horizon line and focus on the textures of spaces between the tree trunks.
*With all due respect to those who still comically believe that revolutionary possibilities must be linked to the revival of the working class of the twentieth century, such a potentiality clarifies that we are still dealing with a class, but a different one, and one endowed with a higher power. It is the class of cognitive labor. This is the class to liberate, this is the class that has to free itself.

Method I begin drawing. Black marks onto a white surface. Organic manual tracings from the void into the light. I observe the immediate environment: walls, baseboards, floors, television sets, trees, moon, water, rain. Images from favourite picture books. The memory of another place or a person or an object may penetrate the surface. An unsolicited image may reveal itself. The drawing is complete when the marks have defined each element in accord with its momentary resolution.

*David Zink Yi* uses his work to explore cultural traditions from a horizontal and intimate perspective, both with groups and communities and with precise social and historical situations.
USA

The impact of Harun Farocki’s work was more than the howl of a dog in tune with his instincts.
After a number of years I recall Beckett’s Watt, regarding from a gate the distant figure of a man or a woman (or could it be a priest or a nun?) which appeared to be advancing by slow degrees from the horizon, only surprisingly "without any interruption of its motions" to disappear over it instead. Here going is confounded--if not identified--with coming, backwards with forwards. The film returns the diver to the divingboard. The procession of present moments is reversed, stilled.

and runs until October 23 at the Cheonggyecheon Plaza in Seoul, Korea. This cooperative exhibit aims to capture the dynamic and shifting spirit of Seoul where all three museums are located. Cheonggyecheon Project is the first part of the /Museum Link/ Exhibition by the three museums after which follows three exhibits by the respective participating museums. The exhibit emphasizes difference and diversity by accepting the museums’ distinct voices rather than trying to show their commonality in a single exhibit.
There seems a certain poignancy to me in the obviousness of my printed observation. Perhaps the awkwardness of the hand is a reminder of the feat of abstraction this simple phrase represents. Perhaps, too, I am remembering the pride she felt at the time to have achieved this level of responsibility – she who was always embarrassed not to have finished more than 10 years of formal school training.
I had my first show at the Isaacs Gallery in Toronto when I was in third year art school. My influence was from Buffalo, directly from the Abstract Expressionists and in 1956 this influence was new in Toronto and the Toronto public thought my aesthetic - abstract expressionism - was really interesting. In January of 1958 I graduated from art school but I had already had my second one-man show at the Isaacs Gallery. I got married in July 1959, and went over to Europe in September, staying away for a whole year. I saw, in particular, works by Goya in The Prado, Madrid.

Over the years this group exhibition has come to be the crowning event of the grant awards, exhibiting the works produced during this period and providing a close-up panorama of today’s most cutting-edge artistic practice. The catalogue, including a text written by Miguel von Hafe, reviews the projects of each of the artists.

The erosion of cultures--and of "culture" as a whole--is the theme that runs through the last 25 years of my artistic practice. Cultures arise, become obsolete, and are replaced by new ones. With the vanishing of cultures, some people are displaced and destroyed. We are currently told that the paper book is bound to die. The library, as a place, is finished. One might say: so what? Do we really believe that "new technologies" will change anything concerning our existential dilemma, our human condition? And even if we could change the content of all the books on earth, would this change anything in relation to the domination of analytical knowledge over intuitive knowledge? What is it in ourselves that insists on grabbing, on casting the flow of experience into concepts?

My aim as an artist is to bridge the gap between the creator and the viewer, so that the viewer becomes a collaborator in the creation of the work. Ultimately, in my curatorial practice and in my art projects, I am interested in discovering and exploring new avenues for interpersonal interactions and engagement.

/The Gordon Rayner Retrospective toured to the following galleries between March 2, 1979 thru September 1, 1980: London Regional Art Gallery, Art Gallery of Windsor, Rodman Hall Arts Centre (St. Catharines), Kitchener-Waterloo Art Gallery, Sir George Williams Art Gallery (Concordia University, Montreal), The New Brunswick Museum (St. John), The Art Gallery of Memorial University of Newfoundland, Beaverbrook Art Gallery (Fredericton), The Norman Mackenzie Art Gallery (University of Regina), Southern Alberta Art Gallery (Lethbridge), and the Art Gallery of Ontario. /

/Brazil #13/, shot at a Brazilian medical school, features the corpse of an elderly woman on an autopsy slab. The autopsy has already been performed, so the body is cut up in pieces that have been reassembled for the next class. In Burman’s hands, the cadaver acquires an air of quiet dignity, a regal equanimity. Burman photographs his cadavers after they have been carved by the scalpel, and always in a dignified, respectful manner. These images elicit feelings of attraction and repulsion, for in these cadavers we catch a glimpse of our own mortality.

Son œuvre est une analogie visuelle des techniques d'échantillonnage utilisées en musique, oà des pièces et des extraits d'enregistrements musicaux ou autres sont sélectionnés, modifiés et combinés avec du matériel original pour créer un ensemble inédit. Sous plusieurs aspects, le travail de Stewart se conçoit comme un échantillonnage visuel. Nombre de caractéristiques de ce travail soulèvent des questions d'un intérêt critique très actuel. Son usage du texte en est une constante marquante. L'usage de sources photographiques et documentaires soulève également des questions liées à l'appropriation.

Depuis son installation de 2005 intitulée /Elle a été élevée dans du coton/, l'utilisation dans son œvre de tissu blanc renvoie au décès d'un proche et à toute une symbolique asiatique où le blanc est associé à la mort et au deuil. En Asie, la mort est vue comme un passage obligé vers un monde nouveau, c'est-à-dire une renaissance, et il évoque la pureté.

Drawing inspiration from the Asian ideogram, /Charles Baudelaire Long Dong Silver and Le petit prince/ complicates the relationship between content and form. The bookwork is made using the remnants of other printed matter and selective found materials. Simultaneously it is about the way in which the ideas and material practices of diverse cultural phenomena converge. Bound in black linoleum tile, the finely textured pages of this publication blend cotton pulp with tinsel, shredded money, fragments of pages from the storybook Le petit prince and images downloaded from the Long Dong Silver Web site. Text fragments are interwoven and embossed into the handmade paper to literalize the idea of the concrete poem. Taking issue with the notion of critical distance, excerpts from Charles Baudelaire’s Mon coeur mis á nu are merged with ad copy stolen from the pages of a contemporary soft-core pornographic magazine. In his original story, Baudelaire used the binarism of naked/nude as an emblem of the hypocrisy of a bourgeois culture that separated private and public life. His own implication as a critic within this conflicted sphere was highly ambivalent. In this incarnation, the relationship between the critic, his objects and metaphors is more properly circumscribed.

*_Hito Steyerl—Proxy Politics_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/proxy-politics/> A face without a butt cannot sit. It has to take a stand. A butt without a face needs a stand-in for most kinds of communication. Proxy politics happens between taking a stand and using a stand-in. In the territory of displacement, stacking, subterfuge and montage thus created, both the worst and the best things could happen.
Certains textes peuvent être parcourus normalement et lus du début à la fin. D'autres s'apparentent au vers libre, à la poésie automatiste ou au discours fragmenté. Cette inclusion sert de relais entre la lecture normale de la peinture et une lecture où le contexte de peinture et en tension avec un matériau issu d'autres techniques. La juxtaposition du texte comme simple élément formel plutôt que pour le sens des mots, et d'autres textes qui sont de toute évidence destinés à la lecture et qui véhiculent un sens en sus de leur référents photographiques, diagrammatiques et schématiques, impose une manière différente de " lire " l'information visuelle.
The angel imagery was replaced by the demonic in the 1984 exhibition at the Carmen Lamanna Gallery. In this exhibition the paintings illustrate images from the unconscious. Dreams. Fantasies. Contemporary icons � guns, cars, TV personalities and "punks" live with the flow into primordial devils.
My father served his apprenticeship at Rapid Grip and Batten with Jack Bush. They were close friends and, though they apparently had a personal schism when I was young, they maintained a great respect for one another's work. After all, they were two of the best illustrators to come out of that generation. Shortly after my father's apprenticeship, he started his own business, Art Circle Ltd., and became well known as a first-class figure man. It was a small company in the penthouse of a great old building near the Stock Exchange on Bay Street. It's gone now, but had gold embellishments and a European-style elevator. At about the age of eight or nine I began visiting him there on Saturday afternoons (my parents were divorced by then) and I often brought a friend along from my neighbourhood. We'd make our own newspapers, because my father had a typewriter, an amazing machine for a boy. I'd take over a whole office desk on a Saturday when the staff wasn't there, with just my father and maybe a lettering man around, hitting those deadlines.

The Artist represents a weeping young lady ideally hugging the picture of whom she meant to be: a modern and strong woman challenging the world Reproducing her alter ego, the Artist describes the current impossibility to follow her dreams and ambitions because of sudden events occurred in her life.
Where previous series of Labyrinth and Laurel explored a body scale relationship based upon the vessel- pierced and layered, unable to contain more than light - this new work /Maelstrom/ and /Aggregate/ series, challenges my own approach and perceptions in moving away from the vessel, exploring disorder in a complex stacking of abstract passageways.
*The meaning was equally clear or unclear regardless of whether it was a conscious work or not. I no longer saw the difference in principle between the egg cup arrangement, the cauliflower, and the remote control.
Sir Kenneth Clark concluded his popular /Civilization/ TV series in 1969 with this famous, darkly prophetic poem. Yet, these same ominous words could be evoked to describe the sense of chaos we experience today. At the dawn of the 21th century our world is increasingly permeated by a profound sense of intellectual and spiritual anxiety in the face of exploding technologies and constant social, political, and economic change. Tribalism, AIDS, famine, surging nationalism, ethnic cleansing, religious fanaticism and war as television entertainment have replaced the promised 'peace dividend' in the wake of communist collapse. The New World Order has not emerged. The centre lacks cohesive focus.
My artistic practice takes shape in large dimension installations, often ephemeral, and, more often than not, achieved in situ. In my installations, the onlooker is invited to experience a phantasmagorical setting, self-tinkered, obviously contrived, highly recreational, where the commonplace leads to amazement. Deliberately chosen flashy effects of mirrors, of sounds, coloured lights, stroboscopes and other eye-catching devices magnify a bewildering array of bric-a-brac arrangements; however the precariousness of the structure, or else the unbearable play of the lighting reduce the awesome sight into oblivion, like a house of cards. The figure of the castle, the archetype of " marvellous " architecture of my childhood's imaginary longings, is a recurrent theme in my work, especially the "House of Cards" (which in French is called "ch�teau de cartes", literally "Card Castle"). The House of Cards interests me for its architectural structure but also because it evokes contradictory feelings: access to an ideal world and apprehension over its impending selfdestruction.
Zorica Vasic’s video /Shooting Range/ illustrates America’s fascination with guns and violence. Culling videos from Internet advertisements for shooting targets and rearranging them into an onslaught of brutality, the artist shows children and elderly ladies wielding powerful automatic weapons designed for armed combat. People shoot their guns sometimes with such excess that the whole affair takes on a surreal quality. In Vasic’s video, the shooting range target becomes a surrogate for the helpless victim of gun violence. The targets are sometimes static, sometimes motorized. As they are shot down, they slowly rise back up; once in place they are shot down again, creating a feedback loop of violence.
Documentation of the dead, a pure act of null and void

In this series of paintings by Toronto artist, Gyula Kalko, the appropriated details of familiar works from the history of Western art illustrate deeply rooted parallels and connections of the human condition between past and present societies. The simulated x-ray panels (a byproduct of scientific scrutiny used in art conservation) work as a formal device through which historical distance, and a sense of detachment from the past, is established and the ambiguity of the connection with the present is communicated. The sections painted realistically and in full colour represent contemporary society and deal with subject matter that effects all of us.
In reviewing the written terms of the numbered treaties it is shocking to note the vast tracts of landed ceded by, and the pittance reserved for, Native tribes. It is telling to examine how the terms of the treaties changed between the signing of Treaties 1 and 2 in Manitoba in 1871 and the last of the numbered treaty adhesions signed in 1954 and 1956. Slowly, the Government began paying just a little more attention to the positions of Native negotiators. Even more telling are the terms of the Agreement in Principle signed by the Nisga'a of British Columbia and the Federal Government in 1996. The Nisga'a demanded, fought long and hard for and finally won, a fair deal.

So why can’t we then draw a direct line from its history into a present where cinema has already been weaponized as the primary technique for mobilizing vision—for drones and romantic comedies alike? From here it only takes Farocki’s elegant sleight of hand to twist the apparatus back on itself, to render its own technologies of control interesting, seductive enough to be perceivable, perceivable enough to be accessible. It is through cinema that power can become fascinating in its complexity, charming in its grace, and deadly in its poetry, to the point where the spell of its technology is broken. Once the aura is gone, slippages appear at the very centers of command, where every lock can be picked and US generals fumble blindly with their own software. The technology has become impossible to master, and also available to anyone. With Harun’s precise scrutiny, an intimate world of techno-social micro-machinations comes to life. When an automated gate closes and latches, Harun is there. When looking into the LCD screens replacing rearview mirrors in cars, he is there. He is there when we address a colleague at work with a certain title.
My art practice follows three increasingly interlaced avenues - video, web art, and public intervention. I have also begun to work in other media, such as drawing or photography, where conceptually appropriate. Much of my work is meant to be stumbled upon in everyday life and requires the participation of a very general audience.
/Painting is What I do, Nature is What I Like/ An Intimate Approach to Landscape
Mirroring the seven paragraphs of Cardews score, the radio piece comprises seven parts and takes place over seven weeks. In keeping with the spirit of Cardew and the political gesture of experimental composition in general, seven practitioners from varying fields and disciplines have been commissioned by Gibson and McCarthy to use and translate the score for radio according to their own personal and varying interpretations.In Kerlin’s private viewing room, Byrne has built a full-scale section of a wooden roller coaster. The tracks cut through the space as though looping through the floor and re-emerging, before cutting through the back wall and disappearing off into the city. It offers a heady and vertiginous way out of the gallery, a kind-of nerve-racking adventure.

Another series, "Artist's World", tried to envision the Artist of the future, using depictions of children whose genders, although implied by their clothing, could be interchangeable.

*Enumérations:*

You choose a path, arbitrary or perhaps the only one you’re presented with and you head out only to find yourself back at the beginning, circling, repeating steps, but as the path builds, if you are watching, you see beauty at every turn. Raised crossroads, the futility of the plan.
Just as artists are essential to the movement of armies, which gather around music, uniforms, flags, so does the artist have a pivotal role in determining the future of money, and the future of the economy. So why shouldn’t artists create their own money? It will not be Monopoly money, but anti-monopoly money. It will be real money to the extent that people trade with it.
In 1994 I went to France and saw sixteen versions of Claude Monet's "Rouen Cathedral" at the Mus�e des Beaux Arts in Rouen, a series he did in 1892 – 93, a hundred years earlier. I also encountered my first Yves Klein blue monochrome painting at the Centre Pompidou, which had been painted in 1960. On a previous trip to Paris I had fallen in love with Jean-Antoine Watteau's "Gilles" at the Louvre, finished in 1720, which may have served as a shop sign for a cafe.
Transit stations have the potential for the kind of interactive environments that I enjoy creating as the traffic flow determines the experience of the work in potentially interesting ways.My works play an important role as mediator in the geo-political landscape, where I seek to place it within the context of place/site and the intersection of high culture and daily life. In the featured works, materiality, form, and concept come together in an expression of each artist’s personal values and experience of the world. These range from place-specific issues of social justice and political oppression to the universal concerns of love and family.
I am The Mildest of Fish

Tony Urquhart was born in Niagara Falls, Ontario, on the 9th of April 1934. He was recognized in the late 50s and early 60s as one of Canada's pioneering abstractionists, having been variously linked with the Toronto painters associated with The Isaacs Gallery and The Heart of London group that included Jack Chambers, Greg Curnoe and Murray Favro. He was also, with Chambers and Kim Ondaatje, one of the founders of CAR/FAC (Canadian Artists Representation/Frontes des Artistes Canadiens), the artists' 'union' that first established a fee schedule for public museum and gallery exhibitions of contemporary artists. Since the 60s Urquhart has followed an independent and autonomous path centred upon his distinctive 'box' format.
Its fury without a target. Or rather, with millions of targets. Over the years Fraser has carefully pruned her work of any cultural specificity, at times using multiple languages, other times appending lists of country names to suggest multiple points of entry. Surprisingly, the effect has been not globalization but individuation. In their inscrutability, these works do not convey a universal suffering so much as they do one womans ongoing struggle to reconcile it with all the lavish beauty in the world.

Lecture by Paola Pivi
Shine and shininess are characteristic of surface effects, of glamour and spectacle, of bling-bling contingency, of ephemeral novelty, value added, and disposable fascination. Shine is what seizes upon affect as its primary carrier to mobilize attention. Shine could be the paradoxically material base of an optical economy typically (mis)understood as being purely cognitive or immaterial. Even at an art fair or Hollywood gala, surface effects are widely deployed while being categorically condemned to the domain of inconsequential superficiality, for shine is also persistently unwilling to compromise speed for substance, surface for depth, attractiveness for soul, effect for content, projection for stasis, inflationary wealth, success, and splendor for reality.

/Uniquely beautiful and enduring-and so ruthlessly difficult; platinum prints are reserved for the finest images, of the most skilled photographers, who make them in small amounts for a special reason. This have been true from the birth of photography to the present day./

In the late seventies and early eighties, I was acutely aware of my precarious position: I was a young woman painting; working in a predominantly male art-form, trying to overturn my position as Object and reclaim the territory of female sexuality. While working in New York in 1979, I began investigating the most extreme form of feminine objectification, (ultimately human objectification), to be found in the mass media: pornography and prostitution. I had to abandon my brushes and put myself in front of the camera in a piece of what I, at the time, called "life art". I modeled for an ad for a brothel in /Screw/ magazine. I used a blowup of the ad in an installation piece in an exhibition titled /Destroy Those Pictures /at ChromaZone in 1981. My direct experience with pornography allowed me to become a "conscious" Object. This was necessary for me to feel justified in using pornographic imagery in my paintings; not as a voyeur but as a participant.

We have to admit that something very interesting is happening as the archival function of the museum becomes secondary, when the importance of the future or the past is superseded by the utility of the present, by the question of how to format an archive in such a way that it can be recognized and synchronized with other archives, with financial markets but also with the historical disenfranchisement of groups whose losses and pains have not been registered or quantified. These new museums seem to lack a methodology, and yet they are going to work collecting, stockpiling, caching, and building an archive at incredible speeds. What is this fortune of stuff that is actually being amassed, and how is it reformatting our own consciousness in turn? It may be interchangeable and interoperable with other archives, other markets, and other file systems, but is it legible?
The work is of now. A key subject of the book is the decline of a common newspaper culture, where editorial and strip cartoons detailed domestic responses to global events. The cartoons reference political scandals and minor historical incidents in a mix of nostalgia, reality and the familiar, chosen with a politicised form of hindsight. Pyman is interested in the way ordinary voices come through because of the power of what they have to say.

I work with relations such as flatness/depth; part/whole; difference/repetition; static/dynamic; permanent/provisional, so as to enact a systematic, yet open and suggestive, treatment of pictorial space. At the root of my approach is a concern to broaden the scope of what is normally considered to be a purely formalist school of painting. Using pattern not only for its aesthetic, rhythmic qualities I wish to hint at its connections to informatics, by which I mean not only its cultural potential as semiotic content but also its socio-political ramifications vis a vis certain readings of techno-science, post-humanism and embodiment (e.g. Donna Haraway, Katherine Hayles, Elizabeth Grosz, Rosi Braidotti). As well, I wish to implicate what I see as a promising overlap between the dynamics enabled by these constructs and those of various representations of 'natural' processes made by people working in such fields as self-organization, genetics and cognitive science. Intrigued by the limited means of the more minimalist branches of modernism, but discontent with their restricted ends, I want, in my work, to propose a multi-valent, non-determinist, deterritorialized space - a decentralized permutational network in which I picture contextually linked, multi-tasking, co-adaptive agents; adept at plugging-in to difference, constantly forming assemblages with the other, and ever open to the prospect of new becomings.

and Elizabeth A. Povinelli. This short film forms the first of a four-part meditation in this issue of /e-flux journal/ on the problem of time, effort, and endurance in conditions of precarity.

Methodically built up and then scraped, smeared, and painted over again, the surfaces of Humphries’s paintings are unstable topographies that alternately cohere and disintegrate, inviting close looking but escaping total apprehension; the viewer and painting work together in a continually unfolding experience. As a result, her works are impossible to truly see online. They demand you be here, now, with them, and that you really look.   Commissioned by YBCA, Gordon’s new installation—part of her solo exhibition /It Only Happens All of the Time/—is an immersive sonic experience that emphasizes the primacy of the embodied experience; one that encourages the visitor to navigate the space through a mode of listening that is both felt and heard.  Gordon explores sound’s ability to establish different levels of intimacy, and the exhibition’s title points towards the ubiquitous presence of sound in that process, whether it exists at the periphery or center of our awareness. The installation’s sound-absorbing walls reference the design of anechoic chambers found in military and scientific testing facilities, which insulate and absorb sound reflections. In contrast to the walls of the installation, which gestures towards a calculated experience, the sculpture /Love Seat/ situated within this contained environment suggests another, more emancipated, arrangement. Surrounded by a multi-channel speaker system distributed throughout the gallery, /Love Seat/ encourages visitors to sit and share in a listening experience with others, while maintaining a physical separation. Fostering an *Control: Technology in Culture/,/ curated by Ceci Moss, Assistant Curator of Visual Arts, is YBCA’s new series of exhibitions showcasing work by emerging and mid-career artists who examine the social, cultural, and experiential implications of technology. The series seeks to prompt timely questions about the profound and far-reaching influence of technology in our daily lives by focusing on artists whose work spans a multitude of disciplines and relates to a diverse set of issues, including architecture, acoustics, psychology, labor, consumerism, the environment, and the military. and multidisciplinary practice grapples with a wide range of themes including morality, religion, sex, death, philosophy, the history of art, and consumer culture. While provocative and deliberately confrontational, their work is also deeply critical, challenging us to acknowledge what is uncomfortable and messy through irreverence and dark humour.  The overwhelming scale of these scenes is outdone only by the incredible detail and painstaking labour evident here and in other works by the Chapmans. /The Chapman Family Collection/ (2002) parodies traditional museum displays and ethnographic museal practices. This selection of bronze sculptures merges the fetishization of ethnographic objects with McDonald’s characters—symbols of the commercial world—in order to reveal the underlying hypocrisy of globalization, colonialism, and commercialization. 
/Corner of the Studio/ and /El Taller/, and other works related to them, apart from their co-nection to the subject of the studio as a place of production, are part of a digression in my work as a whole, a digression from thematic models of subject matter that still dominate most of my work, towards an experimental reflection on technical problems and a theorization of means essential to modernist art of all kinds. Yet there still remains an unresolved problematic in this work, which can only be answered in time and through the development of new work: that of the limits of the aesthetic as well as the technical models that inform these pieces. That is to say, the models of vision provided by both painting and photography (the 'static’ visual arts) have been substantially superceded by new technology: cinema, video, television and computer generated imagery. Nevertheless, the aesthetic dimension, the grounding of the medium itself in an 'idealist’ or 'essentialist’signification that transcends the spectacular power or the new media, remains, in my view, an indispensable element in the legitimacy of contemporary art. (January 1994, revised March 1995)

Re-visiting History: "To write of depicting or representing history is to imply that history is some kind of object with identifiable boundaries that distinguish it from other objects . . . " (Jean Fisher) How is history used? Re-used? What is our relationship to history? How do we remember things? Why do we remember them? Is using history as an 'object’ a way in which we define ourselves in the world today, with all the dramatic changes (earthquakes, tsunamis and civil uprisings)? Why do we go back in history to remember when and why these happened before?
Germany
Fundamental changes have a rhythm with which mankind has become familiar over the ages. Man gradually adapts. By accident man invented history; he wrote in the style of inventory and visualized his histories through art. He accumulated, incorporated and orchestrated. His world became regular and predictable.

*_Sven Lütticken—Shine and Schein_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/shine-and-schein/> In his early essay on Wagner, written during the Nazi period, Adorno characterized Wagner’s music theatre as "phantasmagoric" precisely because of its basis in commodity fetishism. In trying to create a seamless illusion and a dream-like atmosphere, Wagner prefigured later, more technologically advanced manifestations of the culture industry, while his tableaux on stage recalled contemporaneous displays of consumer goods. In the phantasmagoria, "wird der ästhetische Schein vom Charakter der Ware ergriffen." Wagner’s operas are dependent on the concealment of labor, a prerequisite of commodity fetishism.  ** *_Brian Kuan Wood—Is it Heavy or Is it Light?_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/is-it-heavy-or-is-it-light/> Under a regime of visibility that usurps older notions of substance, what figures can we use to affirm its surface effects, to understand its refractive powers, to crack open its hidden energies and make its calculus work for us and not against us? How has this new superficiality realized and flipped the politics of spectacle described by Debord? And why should we take a closer look at the sun?
NEO-MODERNISM* Modernism’s not over yet, but continues to inspire a younger generation of artists. And they revere *Imi Knoebel*—whose exhibition /ICH NICHT / ENDUROS/ is currently on view at the *Deutsche Guggenheim*. db artmag on the return to the avant-garde of the past.

*How platinum prints are created*

*_Ahmet Öğüt—CCC: Currency of Collective Consciousness_*

by Iris Jaffe from Hyperallergic
of the Arts / Shedhalle / White Space.
The zombie, once a staple character in an obscure horror subgenre, has now become the stuff of modern urban folklore, in which scientific disaster is combined with religious scriptures of the rising of the dead in order to provide us with a contemporary vision of impending doom. The film /Shawn of the //Dead/ is a comedy in which the world is taken over by flesh-eating zombies.

At the foot of Spadina Road in Toronto, sail boats were stored for winter with their hulls up on wooden cradles and covered with tarps. I used black and white photography to capture the forms as abstract compositions then rendered them in paint with arbitrary colour. Mixed media of canvas, wood, wire and string give them a semblance of the materials seen on the original site.
An alternative economy would have to seek a language that does not just name a different economic process, but names different psychic energies amidst the prediction of gloom that normally accompanies the retreat of capital from all forms of life, including creative life. And yet it remains important to maintain that the mere presence of healthy public institutions does not guarantee a richer cultural life, just as their absence does not necessitate a poverty of cultural life.
multimedia
After graduating from Ontario College of Art in 1989 I was fortunate to participate in artistic endeavours presented by the artist collective Painting Disorders. My work has been included in many group and solo exhibitions, from artist run initiatives to public and private galleries including Art Gallery of Ontario, Power Plant (Toronto), Contemporary Art Gallery (Vancouver), Edmonton Art Gallery and Albright-Knox Art Gallery (Buffalo). My work is represented by Wynick/Tuck Gallery in Toronto.

Some 30 years later, while learning to paint, I came back to this photograph. You may have noticed the lettered grid around the edges revealing the primitive system I used to enlarge the image. I no longer have that painting or even the figure of Mary, which I cut out because it was the only part of the painting I wanted to preserve. I remember keeping that canvas figure rolled up in my studio for years. But I have moved on twice since then and it seems nowhere to be found.

Another, more recent work I produced, is the performance /Babble/, a work about how the mechanical aspects of contemporary communication transform our messages, and sometimes overwhelm the messages that are being sent. In this work, drum kits are hooked up to computers that are programmed to interpret the signals of the drums and generate texts with them. In one of the sections, the drummers play the drums in ASCII code (the code used by computers to interpret the keyboards that are attached to them) and the corresponding text is projected on to screens accompanying the performers. I write a simple text about making a machine to speak for me. It works in more or less the same way as computers do when we are typing messages, only much slower, and unlike a word processing program, if I make a mistake, I have to live with it. It is a speaking machine that so complicates the act of speaking that the message it delivers is rendered incomprehensible.

/*Telling Stories*/ The Primal stories delve into the underbelly of society, exposing taboos and crossing boundaries. The point of bringing these hidden aspects into view is to re examine outmoded ways of thinking in an effort to permit new vision. It is a process of un-censoring.

Also in 1977, "competition" became the crucial word for the economy, whose project was to submit human relationships to the singular imperative of competition. The term itself became naturalized to the point where saying "competition" was like saying "work." But competition is not the same as work. Competition is like crime, like violence, like murder, like rape. Competition equals war.

Figurative: This series made use of my long term love of drawing from the figure. I worked with the figure in a pop art style before evolving into a more expressive style where I could use my imagination. This painting is Bio-graphical, representing absence from a lover.
Rhona Byrne makes objects; site-specific, gallery and context-based installations; films; publications and collaborative event-based projects. These projects focus on the interplay between people and their surrounding environment at both macro and micro levels. Byrne’s work explores and engages with the multilayered surfaces and workings of the built environment and navigates intangible and transient layers of He began his career as an architectural psychologist in the early 1960s and has published widely on varied aspects of psychology and is best known for his theory of the Psychology of Place.

Levy uses both organic and inorganic subject-matter in his sculptural work. He captures physical space. The artist masterfully winds up manipulating the physical forces of nature, in a seeming effort to try and define these forces. While this results in a fundamental transgression of original form to manmade form, it becomes evident that Levy admires the perfection in nature and attempts to recapture it.

Ces pièces sont autonomes, pourtant, d’une certaine façon, elles reforment un tout, fait d’îlots. Elles sont ordonnées d’une manière rigoureuse et précise, et malgré tout semblent relever d’un certain chaos. Elles paraissent sobres et connues, mais paradoxalement elles ne se laissent pas classifier aisément et renvoient à des images autres que celle de leur réalité première. Au lieu d’un travail de sculpture et de peinture, ce serait peut-être un travail de collage, où peinture et sculpture retournent à une réalité générique et deviennent un matériau de base.
This probably had an influence on making me into a landscape artist, which is basically what I would define myself as. I have done very little figurative work; I've never really been interested in the human figure. One reason is that I didn't go to the Ontario College of Art. Drawing the figure was the subject most taught at the College and everyone who went there came to rely heavily on the human figure. Unlike most of my contemporaries, through sheer chance, (because it was easier to commute to Buffalo from Niagara Falls than to Toronto) I got my training at the Albright Art School (a division of The Fine Art Department of the University of Buffalo), which I attended from 1954 to 1958. My teachers were Seymore Drumlevitch, still an important painter in Western New York, Larry Calcagno, who was with the Martha Jackson Gallery in New York, and Don Nicholls, a very good advertising design teacher who is still there, and also Robert Bruce, a Canadian who taught illustration. Bruce was very interested in control of depth and in weaving space through a painting. Sensitivity to things like that I think are vitally important for a landscape painter, even though they may not be directly used.

None of it was intentional - it all developed and evolved over time. People always ask for my artist statement so I needed to do one but I've never liked to explain a certain piece of work - if you've made a picture and that's how you wanted it to be - hopefully it can speak for itself and whatever it says to the viewer - it's the right message because there isn't a wrong and a right message. Each person takes something a little different from the same picture and I'm happy with that.

making of the world through language and knowledge. My arrangements are schematic, inviting the viewer to move into a space of speculation. I rely on our desires for beauty, poetics and seduction.
Mon travail parle de la disparition et de notre inéluctable destin à tous par le biais des plantes en voie d’extinction (L’herbier), mais aussi par antithèse, de la vie et de mon grand intérêt pour une science à la fois mystérieuse, fascinante et près de nous, la botanique.

When I started this project I was teaching a painting seminar about the Death of Painting.

This last set is derived from war posters which share and reflect many of the same representational tropes and historically specific political biases and cultural beliefs.
In a later series of photographs, titled Natural Law, I examine the inherent futility of demarcating space: smoke stacks and tree branches vie for attention; a tree obscures a flashy Schneider’s meat billboard, and road kill on a freshly sodden grassy slope suggest that natural selection acts indiscriminately of artificially imposed boundaries. Despite extensive infrastructure, "maintenance free" materials, sturdy fencing, and billboards marking industrial progress, the principle of Natural Law exposes the irony of ownership, as the landscape inevitably surmounts artificially imposed perimeters.

USA
Painting can safely be explained as pleasant design and perceptual system. But sometimes we glimpse proof of the frailty of our contemporary belief in an orderly rational universe. This is when a painting can strike fear and loathing in our civilized composure. Painting as threat.

Airbnb can be part of a new integrated meta-architecture that involves the pooling and marketing of space in a way where, in a broad sense, architectural interventions on the level of building tend to serve as decorative afterthoughts to the capture and recording of not only space, but also of practices, representations, expressions, knowledge, and skills. This is the aim of UNESCO’s initiative over the past decade to update the concept of cultural heritage to include immaterial and intangible cultural products. UNESCO’s Intangible cultural heritage (ICH) becomes a device for making another layer of global culture visible and searchable across long distances, and an amplifying mechanism for heritage that can allow it to be converted from culture into a knowledge database, and back into culture again. Is this something we can compare to what Lebanese architect Bernard Khoury imagined as a building that would record memories of a place as data, but also demolish its physical matter with each kilobyte or megabyte it records?

/_Death Row_/ is composed of thirteen aluminium doors with a neon light inside. This creates an optical hiatus in the space, producing an effect of corridors going through a wall.

During the last 20 years my work has been a personal journey exploring my strong and passionate affinity for the still life. For me, nature embodies both a spiritual and physical expression of the extraordinary and commonplace.

Dans mes installations, je m'intéresse beaucoup à la manière dont l'œuvre est appréhendée physiquement par le spectateur pour interpeller son imaginaire. Je conçois des espaces parfois inacessibles, d'autres fois visibles seulement en partie, ou encore totalement submersifs. En effet, alors que dans certaines de mes installations (/Solipsisme/ et /Le jeu chinois/ par exemple) le visiteur s'engage dans un espace où il est submergé, dans d'autres installations il n'a accès à l'espace qu'en regardant de l'extérieur; par des hublots (/Je mens/), par le judas d'une porte qu'on ne peut ouvrir et en arrière de laquelle un son se laisse entendre (/Le bout du monde/), ou encore par l'embrasure d'une porte entrouverte (/Un château en Espagne et Encore des châteaux en Espagne/). Dans ces précédentes installations, tout n'est pas donné à voir et le visiteur est invité à avoir recours à son imagination pour appréhender l'œuvre. De manière encore plus radicale, le projet /My life without gravity/ consiste en un espace cubique fermé dont l'intérieur reste inacessible physiquement au visiteur. À l'intérieur de ce cube se trouvent des sons de feux d'artifice synchronisés à des lumières stroboscopiques, perçues à travers une constellation de trous percés à même les parois du cube. Une vidéo est projetée à proximité du cube. Sur celle-ci on me voit grimper une échelle et disparaître dans la fumée ainsi que tomber dans le vide, comme si mon corps cherchait à se projeter dans cet espace en négatif, de l'autre côté des parois du cube. /Château d'air/ est pour sa part un assemblage de seize portes noires toutes fermées, placées de manière à évoquer la forme d'un château ou d'une tour. Comme pour /My life without gravity/, on per¸oit des lumières stroboscopiques synchronisées à des sons de feux d'artifice à travers une constellation de trous, ici percés à même la surface des portes. Cet inaccessible château noir, magique et menaçant à la fois, n'est pas sans évoquer /Le château/ de Franz Kafka.
The site at the foot of Castle Mountain still bears traces of this story. It was there that I promised my ancestors to bring the realm of the invisible into the visible, rather than allowing the painful to be paved over by history. On the streets of Banff everyone is on holidays, traveling the scenic routes in their cars, creating bear jams. No one sees the barbed wire lying in the grass like so many thorns in a wild rose bush. This work is part of a larger installation and performance.
Sculpture

The symbolic meaning of the Work refers to the social theme of the Poverty considered as a "calamity" affecting the human dignity to to a point that deeply impacts elementary human rights.re: http://www.e-flux.com/announcements/jimmie-durham-and-his-metonymic-banquet/

Superfluity is a prerequisite if Dahlgrens painterly abstract strategy is to work. In /Colour reading and contexture/ (2005), it is the absurd amount of materials which creates the concentration and compactness that make the work so visually captivating, sensual and interesting in terms of its form. Katarina Löfström works with animated videos which relate to painting, and, in her later works, also to drawing. In her works she combines the representative and the everyday with the abstract. /Hang Ten Sunset/ (2000), one of the two works shown at Malmö Konsthall, undeniably bears the legacy of modernisms colour field painting. But Löfström also plays with another kind of culture. Aided by its title, the work recalls the flashy decade of the 1980s a surfer society clothed in horizontally striped T-shirts on a beach in front of a kitschy sunset. Combining in this way aspects of popular culture with art history and purely visual, sometimes hypnotic qualities is typical of her work. In An Island (2004), the starting point is in fact the Stockholm amusement park Gröna Lund in real life characterised by stress, hubbub and noise but which in Löfströms work has instead a meditative calm. But what is interesting in view of these thoughts and ideas are not the references themselves the playing with history, the praise (or criticism) but rather the fact that her impure (and not even completely non-figurative) works in a way achieve what so many of modernisms abstract painters, through their purism, tried to achieve but better. Liberated from history, theory and the romanticisation of Art, she embodies their dream of narratives in an abstract language of colour and form, free to directly express mystical, spiritual forces and emotions. Katarina Löfström succeeds in transforming the obscure into something clear, without thereby making it possible to explain in words.
I consider all this work, and my interest in Duchamp, as proto-conceptual and an important part of media and intellectual exploration. He unlike Matisse and Picasso became an important artist by abandoning painting. The counter tradition to painting for photography, collage and installation is what occurs for a younger generation of artists in the late 1960s in Vancouver.
*Once again, to go beyond shallow assumptions of social media’s invasion of traditional art practices, let me put the question differently: Where does abstraction and the non-representational intersect with the social? Or, put the other way around: /What is the limit of the social within the social itself/?**
Sometimes it takes me only hours to do a watercolour sketch but then it sits around for months. When I do the finished work, it may again take a few weeks. This enables me to depict the scene in the fullness of time, as if the herbs and trees are growing and dying before my eyes. One way of achieving this effect is by banishing objects that take me to an exact moment in time, e.g.. a bird in flight or a falling leaf. I also de-emphasize shadows for this same reason.
Thinking about the aforementioned dichotomy between death as portrayed in the media and death as visceral, direct experience, I became aware that not even the real-time sensory experience of death, such as witnessing a murder, or stumbling upon a corpse on the street, could offer a true understanding of death. Death is an obscure, indiscernible reality. It is uncanny and cannot be completely (or at least satisfactorily) grasped.

My influences are first and foremost everything I see, feel and experience, but I've always loved comic books particularly work by Harvey Pekar and Robert Crumb. I love architecture particularly Art Deco. The artists I most admire are John Martin, a mezzotint artist from the 1800's, Winsor McCay a cartoonist and animator who created Little Nemo, Escher and Lyonel Feininger creator of Kinder Kids. I grew up watching films such as Metropolis, Flash Gordon, Star Wars and Brazil.So all of these things we're talking about become traveling descriptions, or like a cognitive dissident thing that ends up in a kind of binary displacement stuck between two poles.

*"The Mildest of Fish"*
My work grows from the duel between the isolated individual and the shared awareness of the group. At first I made single figures without any freedom at all: blind houses without any openings, any relation to the outside world. Later, tiny windows started to appear. And then I began to develop an interest in the relationship between two figures. The figures of this phase are turned in on themselves, but they try to be together even though they may not succeed in reaching each other.

Tony Urquhart was named to the Order of Canada in 1995.                                            /[with thanks to Joan Vastokas]/

Wake me, when I'm older . . .  Kiss me, and I'll cry! I am the most fleeting of thoughts, The most singular of mollusk, Most certainly the least of my kind. I am the creature I always knew I could be.
Plus Rebecca Warren, Eric Wesley, Daniel Roth, Walid Raad, Deimantas Narkevicius and Kerstin Kartscher

Whatever is causing this to happen in so many places, it appears that fewer people are immune to its effects—in spite of education, class, and wealth—that it moves in many directions simultaneously. For artists and artworks this poses a problem of representation whereby a reinvigorated need to explore cultural origins will not assume any fixed or easily discernible form familiar to traditional authoritarian declarations. Rather, it will seize upon artists’ own lives and priorities, infusing the content of their work with sentimental origin quests, and it will inflect the decisions made by collectors, acquisition departments, and curators. It will accent the way an artist situates his or her work in relation to the world, and to other places in the world where these works may circulate. Everything might look like business as usual when a massive gravitational shift builds itself firmly into already existing lines of thought in artistic discourse, with contextual specificity and cultural sensitivity ascending from artistic strategies or signs of curatorial good faith to become dominant criteria and battleground sites of proxy wars waged in museum auditoriums. A responsible artist might consider carrying small arms to the opening in case anyone has a problem with large-format C-prints of landscapes from a certain corner in that dark cavernous place where you should not go.
The works are Abstractions wherein areas are composed of coloured lines with an expressive use of colour and form.
The search for the 'perfect’ provided the philosophical framework within which Byars conceived his many artworks, events and performances. His sculptures comprise simple and elemental geometric shapes: spheres, cylinders, cubes and cones, all made to his exacting standards in the finest glass, granite, marble, gold leaf and even red roses.
I began making woodblock prints in 1977. In 1988/89, I began introducing woodcuts into my photo-based work. In 1992 I was one of 8 Canadian artists represented in "X Mostra da Gravura Cidade de Curitiba\Mostra Americana", at the Museu da Gravura, Curitiba, Brazil, a curated international print exhibition focusing on alternate forms of printmaking. I exhibited several multi-paneled works that combined woodcuts, photography, and light-boxes; the prints in these works expressed various ways in which the black and white woodblock could reflect photographic elements. One large work, "Machine-Gun", is in the collection of the Winnipeg Art Gallery. Over a ten year period in the 90's and early 2000's, I made and exhibited many works like this. Some of them used computers and computer-based elements. One of these was "Autobiography", the first work at the Winnipeg Art Gallery to use the web and Internet. All my work in these forms represented the fundamental premise of my work, which was the way in which different visual forms can be reflected in one another and merged into coherent works.
/How I Finally Accepted Fate/
*It’s a small world* is organised as a collaboration between Danish Design Centre, Danish Crafts and Danish Architecture Centre. The exhibition is initiated by the Danish Ministry of Economic and Business Affairs and the Danish Ministry of Culture.
This work is the most recent in a series of installations and sculpture and, like previous work is motivated by an interest in the relationship of human beings to nature and material culture. The source for the work is biotechnology and genetic manipulation of nature, which is reshaping our relationship to the natural world in dramatic ways. Increasingly, humans shape nature itself-with the potential for big impacts on our lives and all aspects of daily living.

Benning lets the histories collide, not negotiating them in a documentary manner, but developing a geography of spirit. The emphatic atmosphere is created by the quality of Benning’s view, which is highly concentrated and directed by the obsession to exceed mere narration. 

For the Mesa Arts Center, my work LIGHT STORM which will be installed in 2005 is made of tens of thousands of stainless steel discs that are set into paving indoors and out over an area of 27,000 square feet. The reflective pattern of these discs describes waves and vortices as if these points of light had rained down from the perforated metal sun screens and been blown into natural patterns by a strong desert wind. LIGHT STORM has no mass. It exists as reflected light and surrounding color.
Réel-réel : cela n'existe pas, pour les humains. Réel-fiction seulement, partout, toujours, dès lors que nous vivons dans le temps Nancy Huston, /L'espèce fabulatrice/

Hand made and labour intensive, the manner of my book works’ creation gives form and a very particular expression to what are otherwise invisible processes. The book work production begins with the physical dismantling of a "found" publication. Generally I use popular publications such as political biographies, popular historical narratives or how-to manuals, but sometimes I shred encyclopedias and scientific textbooks. The covers and bindings are removed and the pages are shredded, saving most illustrations intact. New sheets of paper are then formed with the paper maker’s mold and cotton pulp, which includes all these shredded fragments (and sometimes other ephemera such as straw, banknote and tinsel). The new pages are quite literally built out of the old. Appearing in a composition of random sentences and illustrations from diverse sources that are now unhinged, if not completely divorced, from their past manifestation, the original contents of the source book are radically transformed. The new book work’s title combines elements from the original publication to echo this effect. This relationship refers to the processes of cultural change where new technologies build upon the concepts and materials of past forms: The new does not so much efface the old, as selectively adapt critical elements of its multiple meanings and effects.

Before 30 years passed again I returned to this photograph once more. This time after her death. It has become something else now, it is evidence. Along with all the other photographs, the voice tapes, the personal artifacts, even the handwriting, it is evidence of a life lived by a particular person who happened to be my mother. It is as difficult now to affirm my own personal reality as it was when I had only a thick pencil with which to work.
They were all the rage around the time that I was born. Like the fins on a '59 Chrysler, they were the future. And then they kind of disappeared. Or maybe it was that promise of the modern world that seemed to vanish.

Features include managing editor William Pym’s rumination on the 17th edition of the *Biennale of Sydney* with artistic director David Elliott, who touches on the ways that contemporary art finds beauty in our differences, and how artists’ uses of irony, illusion and distance can shed light on societal inequalities. Features editor Ashley Rawlings navigates the practice of Melbourne-based artist *Brook Andrew*, a James Trainor mines the work of Jerusalem-born video artist *Omer Fast*, hailed for his investigations into the mediated experiences of film, television and narrative storytelling, and contributing editor Olivier Krischer examines the controversial career of Beijing-based artist duo *Sun Yuan and Peng Yu*.The corpse allows the artist to rescue a time undone, and at the same time mock death. In other words: the more an artist fills him/herself with death, the more he/she transcends it. Let us remember Goya drawing among the piles of shooting-squad victims at La Moncloa, Rembrandt attending autopsies to create his two anatomy paintings, David before a freshly stabbed Marat, or Caravaggio turning a dead woman fished from the Tiber River into the Dead Mother of God; or Grünewald. The Cuban people need to overcome the death taboo and face Fidel Castro’s corpse—while also preparing themselves to bury his political legacy. To own this collective need to visualize a corpse could become a revitalizing imperative for Cuban art.
Joseph Dadoune and Anisa Ashkar invited Alexia to collaborate on multiple levels in their two new autonomous works, aiming at the creative collaboration between three artists coming from countries with similar sociopolitical characteristics, traditions and cultural qualities.

The automatist method using personal calligraphic strokes combined with my thoughts about various processes in nature led to a two year series. Motivated by my readings on nature I explored an automatist process which was structurally arranged on 'registers' such as in Egyptian pictographs and cuneiform writing only I invented my own calligraphy with the natural movement of my hand and a concept in mind. This approach to painting was spontaneous. This series led me into an exploration of the sea. Several years later I grouped the 'Tree' series, 'Phenomena of Nature', the 'Deep Sea' series and 'Earth' all under the heading of 'Earth Evidence:' and filed into categories of 'Creation',' Process' and 'Memory' which includes photography, painting and sculpture.
With my painting practice seeming in jeopardy, I undertook to paint one more large project, with the conscious idea that it would be my last. "Last Pony", based on "Whistlejacket" by George Stubbs (c. 1762), is a reprise of earlier work of mine that dealt with the equestrian portrait and an analysis of the hero. Stubbs, at the request of his original patron, had left the background blank. Into that void I inserted the landscape from an earlier equestrian painting by Velasquez, his "Phillip IV on Horseback" (c. 1634). The Spanish monarch's reign had striking similarities to the second Bush administration. Riderless, the horse is about to plunge into the unknown landscape. The figure represents either the epitome of autonomous freedom or a fearful flight. While this project was in process, and despite the shattering of my belief systems as an artist, it became a point of pride that the painting be technically accomplished. The achievement of that goal would be a therapeutic act, as anachronistic as I was beginning to feel an allegorical painting might be.
The extreme contrasts of light and dark evoke the sublime, but not the sublime in nature seen in the work of the 19th century painters such as Friedrich and Turner. Now that nature has been observed, measured, subjected to experiments and tabulated as part of the Enlightenment Project, it may retain its beauty but in our arrogance we assume that it has lost much of its sense of terror intrinsic to the sublime. In out ability to evoke this emotion 'god' has been replaced by man. Within the contemporary world, man's technological achievements have become the new sublime, the techno-sublime. But in assuming this role of 'god' have we become Mary Shelley's Dr Frankenstein?

Gareth Brown-Jowett’s /Semi Automatic Clips/ addresses how Hollywood films glamorize war. The artist has taken clips from /Saving Private Ryan, Apocalypse Now, The Patriot, Pearl Harbor, Full Metal Jacket, Platoon, The Thin Red Line/ and /We Were Soldiers/. The artist recuts them, preserving only images of the natural beauty of locales in which these film battles took place; in other words, highlighting what Brown-Jowett calls "the beauty of war." These images are combined with audio segments from battle scenes recorded at a reduced speed. The sound segments create an uncanny effect of anxiety, as if the fighting that one can hear in the distance will soon arrive and explode in full force like a tropical storm. Brown-Jowett asks, "If the director is attempting to create a realistic portrayal of war for the viewer, why have they chosen to include images of beauty?" It seems that the inclusion of these clips of natural beauty in Hollywood war films is merely a way to romanticize death and violence.
Although both of these artists explore the traditions of drawing and painting in highly individual and very distinctive manners, it can be said that both bodies of work display an undeniable ability to investigate shape and form whilst demonstrating an intense love of the chosen medium and its possibilities for illusion, complexity, intricacy, With the systematic pursuance of this approach and the concentrated addition of abstract-constructivist, conceptual and minimalist positions through to the present, the DaimlerChrysler Collection has been given a clearly defined profile which is well founded in art history terms.Arp, Vordemberge-Gildewart and Vantongerloo. In the group of constructivist and concrete art, we have integrated recent works by Reyle, Rockenschaub, Hiepler, Gillick and Monk, which can be related in different ways to the formal vocabulary and analytical pictorial concepts of the classical artists.In relation to the notion of stardom, the exhibition Gee how glamorous offers exemplary representations of the central production mechanisms and strategies employed by Warhol in his life and art, as well as in the complex universe of the Factory. During the past decades there have been innumerable thematic shows of Warhols work, yet most of them offered classical interpretations by focussing on particular themes and/or group of works within his oeuvre. Gee how glamorous proposes a different view of Warhols work from a contemporary perspective. It seeks to posit questions of identity and its construction, self-perception and the perception of others in relation to theatrical as well as documentary strategies. Beyond paintings, films and photographs by Andy Warhol, the exhibition also presents a variety of documentary photos, archive material and recordings from Warhols immediate surroundings. The overall presentation consciously doing almost entirely without origin! All works by Andy Warhol furthermore investigates the value and aura of the original. and a love of detail. In his embroideries nostalgic memory and a distanced, removed stance are forced into a critical reciprocal interrelationship.

The works presented in /DEATH . . .  IT’S OUT THERE/ explore several aspects of death: death and violence, death and loss, death and popular culture, death and nihilism and what purportedly comes following death, the afterlife.

Slowly beyond the interaction of materials, inner patterns of meaning are revealed. More questions, more possibilities arise. On a good day you discover a new continent.
L.G.: So what do you want the outcome to be with the viewer? R.E.: I want the viewer to watch the aura that I'm giving off with the work: the sense of order, the sense of beauty in painting, the colour, the history. And to ask questions. Why is someone doing this? What is there for me to see? It's like when you meet someone you find interesting and you ask questions about them very carefully, then you start getting close to them . . . the work.
Le processus même de création demeure un élément clé dans le travail de Janet Logan et il constitue une partie intégrante de sa recherche identitaire. Du choix des matériaux au travail d'exploration et de réalisation des formes en atelier, jusqu'à l'installation dans la salle d'exposition, tout ce processus de création est investi d'une part ludique en continuité avec les jeux de son enfance. Les formes abstraites ainsi créées et rassemblées sont le résultat de la fusion du réel et de la fiction. Elles stimulent l'imagination, suscitent chez le spectateur diverses èmotions, des sensations, des réflexions et très certainement des réminiscences associées à l'enfance.
/ArtAsiaPacific/ no. 57 blazes ahead into 2008 by investigating themes of landscapes, paradise and destruction through the work of artists, curators and initiatives devoted to changing the art map.

Elsewhere in features, managing editor William Pym reappraises the controversial Indigenous Australian painter and video artist *Richard Bell* and his alter ego, "Richie," while editor-at-large HG Masters gets together with Tel Aviv’s *Sigalit Landau*, just prior to the announcement that she will represent Israel at the 2011 Venice Biennale. Masters considers Landau’s predilection for the "morbid, masochistic and postapocalpytic," and anticipates the shape her work might take in the unfortunate event of a second Gaza War.
Although abstract art is sometimes criticized as being purely formal and lacking content, it remains for me a vital and sensory art form. I do not believe that form can exist without association or ideological content. Without inventive and unified form there is no art at all. Quality has never been dependant on stylistic orientation, figuration or abstraction. Goya, Manet, Matisse, Leger, Miro, Hoffman and Pollock are all quite different, but all made their art by formal, expressive and original means. I intend to continue this challenge.

Greg Staats’ video /Wave/ presents the object of loss as an aural experience. Staats trains his camera at the frosted glass of his front door, videotaping shadows cast by tree branches outside his house. The result is a number of eerie forms that move like grey ghosts across the screen. An otherworldly soundtrack consisting of a funeral song performed in Mohawk by Staats’ grandfather, grandmother and uncles (all of whom had passed away long before the video was made) accompanies the image. The recording, made by Staats’ grandfather in the 1950s, was discovered by the artist posthumously. The harmonies are dissonant and lyrical at the same time. By combining the shadowy images with this song of faith and mourning, Staats alludes to the loss and remembrance of a simpler time, a way of life that will never return.
While I have designed and installed 28 public art projects, it is my most recent environmental designs that I wish to talk about here to best give a sense of how I might approach future projects from an aesthetic and philosophical point of view. My work often uses light and wind to animate and transform the designed environment as the viewer moves through it.
*_Walid Raad—_*_*Appendix XVIII: Plates 22–257*_ <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/appendix-xviii-plates-22-257/>** It seems that when some colors, lines, shapes, and forms sense the forthcoming danger, they somehow just leap, or jump, or drift, or somehow "abandon" their present location to take refuge in certain documents that circulate around artworks. They are no longer within those artworks, but in documents that circulate around them.
I am currently beginning fabrication for two works at two different sites along the old Camino Real in Santa Fe, I was inspired by an ancient Native American image of two spirals that intertwine. These spirals suggest the Spanish and Native American cultures that became intertwined as a result of the trail. The work is entitled TRAIL OF DREAMS, TRAIL OF GHOSTS. One work is a dome in a city park is a light stencil of interpenetrating images from the religious beliefs of both cultures. The sun reveals the images woven together in the shadows cast on the surface below. Etched into the intertwining stone walls at the second site are images depicting the goods brought into the Indian world by the Spanish. These only become apparent as sunlight rakes across the surface. A large mosaic of stone, brass, concrete and glass depicts the voyage along the trail in a symbolic way.
But a form of care that is bountiful and not subject to any measurement is also not infinite. It may be absolute in its commitment, but it is not infinite in its capacity. If we look at what is happening to family relations at the moment, we may start to see the place where the
*1916* offers an historical reflection of the world at war. Comprising a series of paintings and etchings made 'after' photographs and posters from WWI, the project considers the individual contributions and collective ideologies that underwrite global conflict, then and now.
The canvases have the look of reflecting panels which convey the ghost-like presence of the underlying paint while absorbing and rendering the external surrounding space of the piece. The canvases on the floor, as sculptural elements, are conceived as rejects, surging to the value of possibility/potential.
Yeats was in his thirties before he began to work regularly in oil paints and his early experiments in the medium remained realistic in style. His early subject matter was generally concerned with the documentation of a changing Ireland of that time, and reveals a fascination with the rituals of everyday life from political events to funerals, races and circuses. However throughout the 1920s a profound development came in Yeats’ style. His handling of paint became much more free, his brushstrokes more loose and his outlines more and more blurred. It is interesting to note that his subject matter remained essentially the same throughout this change, but became imbued with a new, more mystical meaning.
I was invited to Cleeve Horne's studio to meet his wife, Jean, who, much to my surprise, had a welding sculpture studio. Turns out she was the first person in the country working with welded steel. She said, 'Do you want some of that?' 'Sure do.' She said, 'Go to night school and learn how to weld and then come back.' I went back to Northern Vocational High and took the plumbers' night course. I left after the first six weeks, as soon as I got a good bead. I knew how to weld. I went back to her and she let me use her studio. I did my first few pieces in welded steel. She helped me a great deal.
It is within the bounds of these Treaty Lands that I have lived, worked and travelled over the last eighteen years. It is these landscapes and the histories they carry which I have explored in my art over that time. The power of the Aboriginal presence in this province is great. And the level of racism and intolerance amongst non-Aboriginal peoples here is also great. It is my hope that people who see my Treaty Lands work will enjoy it for what it is, but at the same time will give some of these ideas at the very least, passing thought. And that from time to time when we step out our front doors, we will consider the notion that this is Treaty Land and what that might mean as we move through our day.

I do not attempt to illustrate ideas but rather to discover the sensory associations contained in the paint matter with which I work; as Cezanne or Monet did in front of a landscape. I too paint from nature, but my subject is a self portrait of my experience with the nature of painting itself. The external reality or landscape is reflected in the paint formations.

See me, Shining, in the sunlight And skulking about the property Doing what I do . . . 
All of Manitoba is covered under five separate agreements; Treaties 1 and 2, Treaty 3, Treaty 4 and Treaty 5 signed between 1871 and 1956. The entire northern half of Manitoba as well as parts of Saskatchewan and the North West Territories were ceded through a key adhesion to Treaty 5 in 1908. Currently, a number of ongoing First Nations claims regarding Government failure to honor treaty commitments remain in contention.

By now I was sure about the significance of abstract art. Dennis Burton, Ross Mendes and I went to the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo and we saw our first New York originals. Burton said, 'De Kooning! You can't do that. Everything I've been taught says you can't do that.' I said, 'But Denny, he did it.' I'd never seen a Mark Rothko before except in reproductions. There was one at the end of a hall and Mendes turned to me and said, 'You know, I think I could walk up to that and put my arm into it up to the shoulder.' Those kinds of reflex actions are still valid today; they're very moving experiences. I also saw my first real Jackson Pollocks, my first Clyfford Stills, and the paintings of the great master Hans Hoffman. There was a Francis Bacon; a very good painting, quite moving, but for some reason, it didn't have that slam effect that the Americans did. Too melodramatic. The only thing it had going for it (and for his work in general to this day) is that it was nicely painted in an almost American way, but the subject matter was terribly illustrative of emotions rather than revealing the emotions themselves.

Francis Fukuyama, and even his mentor Alexandre Kojève before him, warned of boredom, stasis, and homogeneity being characteristics of the "universal homogenous state" that would mark the end of history. As Fukuyama put it: in the post-historical period there will be neither art nor philosophy, just the perpetual caretaking of the museum of human history. And indeed, the phase of contemporary art has also been characterized in discussions over recent years as a reformatting of time into a perpetual present. The contemporary is the now that never ends, the art that circles itself at the tail end of history looking back on defunct ideologies, archiving and polishing them for a future that never arrives.

The photograph "Mary is Here" is an image of my mother taken in 1944. She is standing in the middle of a group of men – the "final checking crew" at Central Aircraft in London, Ontario. The occasion, as noted on the back of the photograph in my mother’s hand, is the production of the 1000th Bolingbroke bomber. I was six years old at time and would have just learned to print with a pencil.
Time cannot be constrained by merely mechanical devices. While it represents one way of looking at the world, I hope my clocks allow another.

attempt to translate sound while unlearning society’s views and etiquettes around it. Using my conceptual judgment and compromised understanding, I challenge and question its visual absence and sometime tactile presence. Fortunately, with today’s advanced technology such as computer programs and high bass speakers, I have been given alternative access to sound. It does not necessarily mean that it’s a mere substitute or replacement of sound.
At that time, I lived in the Rosedale valley, with my wife and daughter. My life was like a soft-focus French film with statues leaning in greenery, trees full of raccoons and my child's record player playing jazz. I was painting all night and commercial-arting all day. I was awarded my first Canada Council grant, thanks to Harold Town's recommendation. Then a most significant change happened in my life. I'd been to Europe once before, when I was twenty, and had taken the train from Paris down to Ibiza to visit Graham Coughtry. This time I went with my wife and my daughter, Daphne, to Germany to meet my in-laws. We went to the Louvre and, via the Prado in Madrid, to Morocco. Most of the time was spent painting in a tiny house in the Balearic Islands. We lived for a year, quite well, on $2,500. Then I had to come back, give up this fantasy life, find a job, find a place to live, pay the rent and all that. By then I was spending more and more time staying up at night painting, and started to lose jobs. The truth is I started to not care about the jobs. There wasn't the slightest doubt in my mind that I was going to make it as an artist, and I was going to be a full-time professional by the time I was thirty. I wanted to be able to give up advertising art, not to have to work that way for a living. Although I had and still have the utmost respect for fine designers and illustrators, I was aware that the painting of certain artists suffered because of commercial art influences: the fashionable tricks of the hand, the clich?s. I could see it, and I didn't want it. I got out by the time I was twenty-nine. When I was thirty Robert Markle and I were approached by Dennis Burton, Robert Hedrick, and John Syme. They wanted us to teach; something I'd said I would never do, nervous that teaching would drain the energies directed toward my own work. They had started a new art school in 1965 and proposed a method of teaching that was very enticing. We were told we could teach art in any way we cared. Markle and I said we'd try it for a year. It was also additional income. After all, we hadn't much from living off freelance work.

The egg stood in front of us—all of us, people from the past as well as the future—and renamed and reinvented the world anew. Peralta Ramos changed the rules and altered the universe that day in Buenos Aires, which might explain why he abandoned painting and sculpture shortly after, instead staging many social gatherings and writing maxims on café napkins over long afternoons in Buenos Aires. He did not stop making art; rather, he started making it from the other side.Vanitas still life painters of the 16th and 17th century had a remarkable ability to capture the impermanence of life on canvas. They employed a host of iconic objects ranging from pensive skulls and snuffed candles to rotting food and fading flowers in order to compose vivid pictorial messages of remarkable complexity, eloquence, and beauty that speak of the brevity of life and profound futility of earthly existence.

*_Trevor Paglen—Operational Images_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/operational-images/> Something new was happening in the world of images, something that the theoretical tools of visual studies and art history couldn’t account for: the machines were starting to see for themselves. Harun Farocki was one of the first to notice that image-making machines and algorithms were poised to inaugurate a new visual regime.

*The Centre for Contemporary Canadian Art* *The Canadian Art Database: *Canadian Artists Files

There is in this movement a residual rhetoric that flows from the relations between these figurations. It is possible that this rhetorical element stems from the sublimation of painterly gesture to dominantly mechanical processes in the photographic (printed and laminated in a laboratory) and wood monoprint (directly transferred without any intentional gestural articulations) elements. And because there is almost never any painterly gesture as such in my work, rhetorical figuration emerges indirectly and at the extremes of the pictorial vocabulary, both in the general organization of theme and form, and often in apparently incidental details of the photographs. Even the textures of the natural grain of the wood impression is produced by pressure of the feet, but for the most part the 'rhetorical drama’ of what is latent as painterly figuration is contained in a dynamic but controlled equilibrium between the abstract sections and the spatial unity of the photographic ground, which, as the more potent representational field, already has a superfluity of gestural movements on its own. The visual thrusts and parries, the luminous textures, the contrasts of tone and chroma; all contribute to a painterly vocabulary latent in both the abstract and photograph elements. But overriding all those movements that carry a figurative function, there is the opticality of the work — the illusions of virtual space carried by the material difference between the photographic imagery and the woodblock monoprint; both of which articulate space in a forceful but distinct way. This 'opticality’ is reinforced by various contrapuntal spatializing deuces in both the photgraphic and abstract sections. Thus the eye is 'trapped’ into plotting the logic of virtual space, the mirroric simulation of actual space that is the essential opticality of the photographic domain.
For the Venice show, Iván Navarro has created a group of works in a socio-political perspective – a theme woven into all his work.
heteronymous signs. For Reza Negarestani, philosophy can break this stranglehold of heteronymy through its programmatic and functionalist deployment of thought and thinking as an already autonomous enterprise. By establishing and structuring realizable commitments towards their own ends and demands, philosophy still has the capacity to release a full-blown project of emancipation via the extreme rationality of thought’s computability and capacity for abstraction. For Negarestani, thought itself is an ancient artificial intelligence whose resilience stems from its artificial capacity to reinvent itself. —Julieta Aranda, Brian Kuan Wood, Anton Vidokle

'museum piece’ (*a work in progress*) For a number of years my practice has focused on artifacts, collections, classification, and display. In some instances I have worked directly from museum collections: the Fortress of Louisbourg, The Nova Scotia Museum, and the Museo Archeologico Siracusa. On other occasions I have created my own collections and taxonomies.

I left Montreal at the age of seventeen to study painting at the Pratt Institute in New York City. From that year (1966) until 1972, I attended fine art schools in Boston, Maine and Montreal, and finally the New York Studio School of Drawing and Painting. Alex Katz, Philip Guston, and Sidney Tillim, all figurative painters, were among those who made the strongest impression on me during my final student years.

Along with my installations, I have a sustained drawing practice. At the beginning simple drafts for future installations, my drawing gradually became an autonomous practice nourished with the same preoccupations as those of my installations. I make large drawings suggesting imaginary labyrinth-like landscapes in which the gaze is invited to lose itself. As in Italo Calvino's Invisible Cities wherein a tacit understanding between the narrator and the sultan allows the latter to take delight in an idealized version of his empire, these unreal spaces interest me because they render an idealized vision of the world, where desire and fabulous inventions triumph over reality and verisimilitude. I realize my drawings by accumulating and juxtaposing motifs in order to create artificial landscapes or fantastic cities where steep mountains, flying carpets, starry skies, volcanoes, castles or exotic palaces for instance, become recurrent figures.
The post-modern world is a godless world. Humanity has become morally superior to God. God has punished his most faithful, Job, and let his son, Jesus, be brutally sacrificed, leading to the lament, "If there is a God, why is there such suffering in the world?" If God is omnipresent, then he knew that Eve would give Adam the apple and all of the subsequent suffering and punishment was essentially a set-up job by a sadistic psychopath. Of course this modern realization has more to do with the development of humanity's psyche than a free floating phantasm, surveying and manipulating our destiny. We are left alone with the human calamities of war, starvation and racial and economic slavery. We are solely responsible for the collapsing ecology and potential annihilation resulting from a nuclear accident or war. We are left with the existential realization, "What you see is what you get. If we fuck it up, we're fucked!"

Uncategorized
Extraction Agent: is a liquid applied through the action of painting but does not impose in the same manner as paint. The action of painting with extraction fluid, extracts the pigment from the ground space and creates a form of space within the black velvet field. With this substance, an alchemical reaction occurs that turns the painted mark to gold so that something other than a positive / negative polarity occurs and something other than an object is created.

Around this time I got a place of my own and worked on Yonge Street below Bloor over a second-hand shoe store. I sculpted in steel out on the roof much to the landlord's dismay and made a large mess and a small sculpture. It was the first work that I know of that was accepted into an Ontario Society of Artists exhibition at the Art Gallery of Toronto, the first piece of steel sculpture by a Canadian to be shown there. It was suspended from the ceiling. Then I started to work larger. I made a thirteen-foot fountain that actually functioned for Elise Meltzer's garden pool in Rosedale. I was sure I was a great sculptor when my fountain was installed in place of the pissing cherub. To walk into her house and almost literally trip over a Henry Moore, the first one I'd really seen, was an unforgettable experience.

The part object is a constant throughout the work, even when the body is not directly represented. For example in Vanitas (1995) representations of garments and portions of garments taken from art historical sources point to the absent body as subject. Issues of survival, ephemerality and vulnerability are dealt with in the context of these fragments. The body is seen in my work as a region of the imagination, a territory of uncetainty.
[From the catalogue /Tony Urquhart, Twenty-five years: Retrospective/, the Kitchener-Waterloo Art Gallery, November-December 1978.] All rights reserved.
