Produced between 1991 and 1997, the installation comprises a series of 22 volumes of the book of "Knowledge", and 47 individual book works, housed in two bookcases. Meant to simulate the scholarly tome, the book works are bound in leather with either cloth or hand-made cover-stock paper and their titles are embossed into the spine with gold leaf. The "library" furnishings have been designed to recall the neoclassical reading room. Large and overstated, the books and their cases favour the symbolic display of the values associated with these realms of knowledge over the accommodation of the subjects of that knowledge. By virtue of its particular content, however, this "library" directs the orientation of the viewer/reader away from the abstraction of the neoclassical ideal towards more material, immediate and concrete concerns. The books are made from the shredded fragments of one or more previously published books. The anarchistic juxtaposition of dissonant texts dramatically foregrounds the relationship between the reader and the work. Meaning is suspended in the dialectical confrontation between each of the original contents and their new forms: The reader provides the crucial link in this circuit of signification.

*_Oxana Timofeeva—_*_*The End of the World: **From Apocalypse to the End of History and Back*_ <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/the-end-of-the-world-from-apocalypse-to-the-end-of-history-and-back> What really eliminates differences is catastrophe: in the waters of the Flood, everyone is equal. I am arguing not for a messianic, but a catastrophic communism, i.e., the end of the world taken in its real-time. In this time, the end of the end of history doesn't mean that we still have a future, and that it will get better or worse. It will not get worse, it's already worse. All of these phenomena that are associated with reality and that are supposed to reemerge after the new beginning of history—wars, repression, butchery, and so forth—are really visions of our present zombie apocalypse.

Tony Urquhart was named to the Order of Canada in 1995.                                            /[with thanks to Joan Vastokas]/
This project sampled the genre of the Italian Capriccio (invented landscape). These historical sources are cropped into elliptical canvases, and then tipped, as an attempt to show how strong the viewer's need is to orient to horizontals, or verticals, even in so called nature.

Through representations of Hades and Valhalla, reincarnation, heaven, hell and purgatory, and in the rituals associated with mourning and loss, we use the vehicle of the arts to explore the undiscovered realm of death. From tribal burial rites to the infernal world of Dante; from the phantasmagoric creations of Henry Fuseli to Ingmar Bergman's metaphysical cinema; from the musings of turn-of-the-century spiritualists to William Blake's mysticism and the negations of materialist philosophers, the concept of death has played an integral role in the shaping of our identity as a people. As John Alan Schwartz, the writer-director of /Faces of Death /(an explicit cult film depicting various ways to die) puts it: "The only way to understand death and dying and the afterlife is to look at death right in the face."  Although /Faces of Death/ is widely reputed to be more artifice than fact, Schwartz's statement, nonetheless, touches on an important point: Try as we might, we cannot hide from death. The artists in this exhibition have not  only had the courage to find meaning in death through their work; they have been brave, or, perhaps, simply curious enough to look at death in the face... before it looks in theirs.

Joe Coleman's nihilistic view of murder as salve is echoed in Jubal Brown's /Death Day Suit (with Self-Inflicted Wounds)./ However, where Coleman directs his destructive tendencies outwards towards humanity, Brown directs them at himself. The video was inspired by Lisa Steele's seminal video /Birthday Suit/, in which the artist, nude, shows her many scars in front of the camera, and describes how they were acquired. Steele's scars were the result of falls and accidents. Brown's, in contrast, are self-inflicted.

Montage, Metamorphosis, Masks: On the occasion of *Wangechi Mutu's* exhibition /My Dirty Little Heaven/, which Mutu conceived as Deutsche Bank's first ‘Artist of the Year' at Deutsche Guggenheim, ArtMag presents international artistic positions that question identities and construct them in new ways.

The work is of now. A key subject of the book is the decline of a common newspaper culture, where editorial and strip cartoons detailed domestic responses to global events. The cartoons reference political scandals and minor historical incidents in a mix of nostalgia, reality and the familiar, chosen with a politicised form of hindsight. Pyman is interested in the way ordinary voices come through because of the power of what they have to say.

Definitions of 'nature' reveal a range of contradictory meanings. Nature often suggests that which is separate from human activity and is used to project desires seemingly unattainable, thus "nature becomes romanticized, patronized and forever the passive recipient of our desires" (Kate Soper, /What is Nature? Culture, Politics and the non-Human)/. Donna Haraway in the Cyborg Manifesto proposes more fluid boundaries between humans, animals and machines instead of defining them in opposition. She suggests: "We are all chimeras, theorized and fabricated hybrids of machine and organism; in short we are Cyborg" and "The Cyborg myth subverts myriad organic wholes, in short, the certainty of what counts as nature - as a source of insight and promise of innocence - is undermined, probably fatally." /(Simian, Cyborgs, and Women: The Reinvention of Nature)/. Computers and weaving have been connected in Sadie Plant's essay: /The Future Loom: Weaving Women and Cybernetics'/ and her book /'Zeros and Ones'/', which discuss weaving as digital processing of data. Weaving, of course, is, and always has been a digital process.

Conceptual
*_Trevor Paglen—Operational Images_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/operational-images/> Something new was happening in the world of images, something that the theoretical tools of visual studies and art history couldn't account for: the machines were starting to see for themselves. Harun Farocki was one of the first to notice that image-making machines and algorithms were poised to inaugurate a new visual regime.

The Artist represents an African woman hugging a baby. In spite of the physical conjunction represented by a hug, both the characters apparently play an independent role in this Opera: the woman looks tired, submissive, unhappy and somehow resigned to her fate; the baby instead seems to peacefully rely on her ancestry privileges.

Using conventions borrowed from art house and horror cinema, Anwar creates an atmosphere of ominous foreboding through the use of stark black and white footage that has been shot in a hand-held style at varying speeds. This is accompanied by a sparse soundtrack composed of Buddhist chanting, drumming and haunting guitar melodies. The baby goat screams as it is held down, and when the butcher slits its throat the effect is shocking. The work is gruesome, eliciting strong reactions from viewers, but it raises the question: Why is this so shocking when it happens every day?

My interest in Jacquard weaving started in 1997 when I read Ada Lovelace's quote: "The Analytical Engine weaves algebraic patterns just as the Jacquard loom weaves flowers and leaves". Ada's unique background in art and science, poetry and mathematics (her father was a poet and her mother a mathematician), reflects my own interests in science, art and language. Ada translated a text by Manabrea about Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine in 1843 and her notes, which took up more space than the original text, contained the above quote and the first instances of written software. The engine never quite worked, but contained the basic operating principles used by computers later. The process was derived from the Jacquard loom, which used punched cards to store and process complex information as zeros and ones. The Jacquard loom was developed in 1804 by Jacquard, in response to demands for weavings with elaborate imagery, influenced by fabrics brought back to Europe from Asia during the 18th century. Napoleon funded this new technology, to fill his empty war chest. The motifs feature mainly elaborate floral designs and thus provide an excellent forum for reinvesting patterning and imagery composed of flowers and leaves with new meanings. They also show unintended developments in technology.

In Toronto I have continued my narrative Primal series that address sexual, religious and cultural attitudes, transgressing to find the animal within. We anthropomorphize animals and are familiar with characters like 'Peter Rabbit'. These tragicomic paintings reverse this, questioning the nature of reality and individuality. 'Rue' is set in a parched land since the environment consumes us as we devour it. The inspiration was a book called Super Freakonomics that proposed substituting cows with kangaroos since they emit less methane. The snake-man's erection is symbolic of Capitalism's sexual and unreasoning will to power. 'Promiguous' muses on mastectomy and idealism. Australian scientists have been growing human breasts on pigs as replacements. I borrowed from Titian's "Danae", referring to the odalisque tradition as an ideal of Western womanhood.

Some of the narrative works come in the form of installations taking a critical look at contemporary society: Paul Chan's paradise veers into the apocalyptic, while Kota Ezawa turns a TV program virtual by stylising it with pop flat tints. The more minimalist Mario Garcia Torres animates a conceptual statement.

We, The Outsiders revolves around a single work—a gigantic egg—by Argentinian artist Federico Manuel Peralta Ramos that provides a title and script for an exhibition that investigates where consciousness begins and ends in relation to art. Titled Nosotros afuera [We, the Outsiders] (1965), the egg is a microcosm of the space of creation that we cannot immediately access, and it silently remaps and inverts our understanding of what is inside and what is outside of consciousness and creation. This gigantic egg marks more of a beginning than an end, but also a moment when the artist declared himself tired of language. He and he alone can decide on the meaning of words. Yet if he remains the only one who knows the meaning, the whole process may end up a radically solipsistic effort.

Transient Encounters: We recognise the temporary nature of the biennale format, as well as the mutable boundaries of the notions it proposes to address. Life is not about the solid stabilities suggested by historical constructs. Living requires facing continuous changes and the openness to experience the significance of chance, passing encounters.

Influenced by Richard Long's evocative walks in exotic or places, removed from the daily bustle of life, I want to instead make sense of those very mundane trips. The things we do daily, rather than those we dream about. Reading Rebecca Solnit's /Wanderlust: A History of Walking/ shows that walking can have many different purposes from pilgrims and spiritual journeys to hikers, celebrating nature and healthy living and pushing their physical strength. I am also interested in the idea of exploring the city, or what Walter Benjamin calls 'to go botanizing on the asphalt" and more absurdist structural approaches explored by 'Situationists' and 'Psychogeography', where we suspend habits and preconceptions and set up systems to discover patterns we have not seen before.

attempt to translate sound while unlearning society's views and etiquettes around it. Using my conceptual judgment and compromised understanding, I challenge and question its visual absence and sometime tactile presence. Fortunately, with today's advanced technology such as computer programs and high bass speakers, I have been given alternative access to sound. It does not necessarily mean that it's a mere substitute or replacement of sound.

Engagement with the viewer is a primary focus for Marman and Borins and is initiated through the strong physical presence of their work. In many of their projects, electronic, kinetic and / or multimedia components serve to enhance the viewer's reception of their art. Additionally, the beholder's involvement is often intensified through the artist's inclusion of interactive elements, inviting the viewer to become a participant in the work and creating two levels of reception: the participant and the observer.

Painting as a diagram of inner experience draws a precarious line between the /monde concrete /we bump into and the unknowable dimensions of thought: the dance of madness and reason. In this reflexive visual ritual we recognize our own inner perceptions as we recognize a stranger's interpretation of the objective world. We remember the precognitive visual language of our species as it is reflected back to us from painting: our animal-mystic dreams. Our self-knowledge is more than the splashing about of electro-chemical storms in our brains. Mystery betrays the known.

116 x 89 cm
The zombie, once a staple character in an obscure horror subgenre, has now become the stuff of modern urban folklore, in which scientific disaster is combined with religious scriptures of the rising of the dead in order to provide us with a contemporary vision of impending doom. The film /Shawn of the //Dead/ is a comedy in which the world is taken over by flesh-eating zombies.

In conjunction with a theme of awkward or difficult communication is an attention to conditions of vulnerability. Making myself vulnerable, physically or socially, has been a essential part of my art practice from the beginning. There is a part of me that likes being scared. When you are scared, you are paying close attention to the things around you. The world is big and moves in slow motion. It's very different from panicking, when you can't pay attention to anything around you. Finding ways to go through fear without panicking is a game of self control that I enjoy on an almost daily basis.

A painting results from time spent 'drawing down', observing pure states of beauty in colour in which new visions occur. Multiple facets or possibilities call for hinging points to draw a bridge -- Silence -- to a continuum. Inner spaces paint and catalyze the language of colour and simple forms. The image draws itself, when background and balances within

This open arrangement of the galleries accommodates modern contemporary art with its rejection of chronological series. It allows for exhibitions that highlight the complexity of the creative approaches that coexist at any point in time. The same applies to the museum in Frankfurt, which also features very different rooms: galleries with skylights or sidelights, ones that are dark, as well as round and angular rooms. It lets each work of art find its place and gives the visitor the freedom to devise his or her own way through the exhibition. I also think a museum is not an erratic block; it's a building for the community to take possession of.   

I'll gesture for you to follow me. "We're in one of the walkways between the big tower and one of the smaller towers." It's just 70 cm long, and about 50 cm wide. "Notice. Windows on both sides." You will feel like you're also floating somewhere between two-dimensional and three-dimensional space. You will feel tiny and also immense because Berlin slices right through this anti-room.

Duchamp's interest in Eros and Thanatos, love and death is a theme that connects there two exhibition ideas. With "Patisserie Duchamp" I wish to present an exhibition that has the appearance of a Museum-like enterprise to engage, critique and parody. The idea of making work that accumulates and exceeds the display space of its container as museums do is evident in my "boîte en valise" Athens (1987-1996) and Vancouver (1991-1994) /Sites and Place Names/ projects. Likewise, /May I Smoke / Puis-je fumer/ is a body of work that includes charcoal and graphite drawings, photographs, wood sculptures, and installation work.

The Cheonggyecheon Project, taking place against the backdrop of overlapping memories and images that characterize a complex city, will be an experiment on whether people can communicate through art.

/We shall not cease from exploration And the end of all our exploring Will be to arrive where we started And know the place for the first time/
There is an ironic effect produced by the fact that this emphatic reference to the canvas support as pictorial ground is conveyed specifically by the photographic element that covers most of the sur-face of each canvas. Since now the photographic surface has becomes the ‘ground' for the ‘pain-terly' figuration of the woodblock impressions, the history of photographic practice which has provided a competitive and often opposing force to the traditional dominance of painting and the materiality of the canvas support, now ironically acts as a reifying and ‘affirmative' reference. Just as text subscribes image, here photography subscribes paintings: — it confirms its existence through mechanical representation. However, it would not be entirely accurate to say that this reifying and affirmative effect ceases to be critical of these relations. Rather, through the ‘displacement' of the ‘ideal' ground of painting (the white, virginal space of the primed canvas) by the ‘vulgar' specificity of photographic representation, this ironic reversal provides the opportunity for reflection upon the relative status of the pictorial arts and what we might call the ‘idea of the picture', the discursive logos of modern thought as represented in the image. The referencing power of photography has returned to the ‘deconstru-ted' materiality of painting and its canvas support the possibility of representation that was lost when painting, and especially its ‘gestural' rhetoric, was superceded by the ‘industrialization' of pictorial representation through mechanical reproduction such as photography and film. Now painting in its idealist dimension is ironically affirmed, and its reductive material dimension fetishized, through the intervention of photography.

My earliest works with computers pre-dated most of the the graphical features that we take for granted today, so that I had to develop my own software, as in "Autobiography", which is where I first became interested how digital images are formed, i.e. with pixels, and that if the image is enlarged enough we are left with pixelization. Pixelization mirrors so nicely the modern sense that if we look closely enough at physical reality, it disappears. In 1994/1995 I made several prints in which I tried to find a graphic language for representing "pixelized" images. In 1998 I made a series of woodblocks based on digitized images from Edweard Muybridge, which grew out of my web site "Animal Locomotion", for which Muybridge was the starting point. I continued to explore ways of representing the zoomed digitized image. These woodcuts have twice won awards at the Boston Printmakers' North American Print Biennial. I exhibited them at the International Print Center New York, at the 2003 Print Biennial of The Print Club, Philadelphia, and elsewhere.

6. The ultraviolet light "reduces" (purifies) the platinum salt to a darker, pure metallic state. A faint outline of the image appears on the paper when exposure is nearly complete. The fully exposed paper is then taken into the laboratory, and a special chemical bath is poured upon it. Development is instantaneous. Then, a series of mild acid baths remove any remaining traces of iron and other extraneous material from the paper. The final image is formed out of submicroscopic crystals of pure platinum metals, embedded in the Since pure platinum, like gold, is so stable and permanent, the platinum print is the most archival of any image made on paper. Silver prints will change visibly in a few years or a lifetime. The platinum print can last for centuries and centuries, as long as the fine paper-and the image will never change.

In my research with large groups of people, /The Burden Work/ (1993-96) I came to realize the many 'burdens' we carry are both deeply personal and collectively global simultaneously. To create a space of resonance in which cultural burdens, history, memory and other personal baggage can vibrate side by side is to me an opportunity to create a doorway into another realm of thinking about these things, one that is experienced viscerally before it is understood rationally. I want to continue to create work in which the synthesis of these elements happens in the viewer rather than at a distance in the art objects mounted on the walls.

My modus operandi is to create a visual timeline telling a story, utilizing key moments, composed within an overall unity that combines realistic passages with abstraction. Caesuras of visual information are stacked using unusual perspectival viewpoints and rhythmic passages to guide the viewer's eye through the painting. Simultaneously time-based and aesthetically timeless, the paintings try to condense stories into a unitary experience, yet in a beautiful manner.

//Climb to our proper dark, that we may trace

With my painting practice seeming in jeopardy, I undertook to paint one more large project, with the conscious idea that it would be my last. "Last Pony", based on "Whistlejacket" by George Stubbs (c. 1762), is a reprise of earlier work of mine that dealt with the equestrian portrait and an analysis of the hero. Stubbs, at the request of his original patron, had left the background blank. Into that void I inserted the landscape from an earlier equestrian painting by Velasquez, his "Phillip IV on Horseback" (c. 1634). The Spanish monarch's reign had striking similarities to the second Bush administration. Riderless, the horse is about to plunge into the unknown landscape. The figure represents either the epitome of autonomous freedom or a fearful flight. While this project was in process, and despite the shattering of my belief systems as an artist, it became a point of pride that the painting be technically accomplished. The achievement of that goal would be a therapeutic act, as anachronistic as I was beginning to feel an allegorical painting might be.

My work, in 3D as well as in painting, originates from the very idea that ultimate knowledge could very well be an erosion instead of an accumulation. The title of one of my pieces is " All Ideas Look Alike". Contemporary art seems to have forgotten that there is an exterior to the intellect. I want to examine thinking, not only "What" we think, but "That" we think.

/Artifacts from Pecos/ represents tools from a 10th century Pueblo village. Shaped and worn, these objects remain close to their natural formation. At once rock and hammer, bone and awl, they represent a fine line between nature and culture. In contrast to Pecos, I collect landfill fragments and aggregate (cement, rock, bricks, tiles). Made round and amorphous by the action of water, they appear as ‘city rocks'; culture mimics nature. I have a variety of shapes, colours, and sizes that depend on their combination to create classification. Worn bricks can look like 6thC BC loom weights or 21stC hot dogs, depending on their context. They are a simulacrum; they are relic and rubble.

Jack Burman's photographs of corpses and bones inspire reverence and calm. His large-scale photograph/Capela Dos Ossos, Portugal /was taken inside a chapel made entirely from bones that were collected from graveyards in the 16th century. The image in the photograph is of an altar with a crucifixion image; the altar is made of human bones. Rather than appearing gruesome, the image is a beautiful reminder of the precariousness of life and the power of faith.

The project is accompanied by the essay of Korean novelist Yeon-Su Kim whose unique viewpoint and insights have come to represent the struggles and aspirations of the oughts.

Most are aware, when I exhibit a new body of work, that work is based on the extrapolation of an idea. And, as deep, and as varied in appearance as the /Plan for Painting Series/ are the working method applicable to their making is as programmatic as the method applied to the making of the /To Foil Oils/. At the structural level, a programmatic approach to the making of a group or series of paintings is a way of investigating the resonance of an idea through the convention of a serial format. Thus, the idea of realizing in a serial abstract paintings a multiplicity of mental perspective rooted to the specification of the medium through its relation to colour, material, and sensation provides viewers with the means to appreciate a rich and inexhaustible mother load of perception.

*Clara Montoya* (b. 1974, Madrid)  /Superficie/ (Surface) aims to continue the line of work the artist

One series, "The Complete Artist", examined the history of the image of the Artist, appropriating portraits for their embodiment of certain stereotypes: the artist as angry, serious, bitter, modest, juvenile etc. Together they seemed to comprise a group portrait of my artistic milieu.

This last set is derived from war posters which share and reflect many of the same representational tropes and historically specific political biases and cultural beliefs.

Architecture remains the most tangible way of constructing the social. Yet, the system we call "architecture" is not reducible to the physical, the tactile, the obvious. In the history of avant-garde architecture, immateriality and intangibility carried a promise of liberation, of escape from the heaviness of building, from completion, from gravity or reality. A new contemporary architecture would be built out of pure knowledge—drafted on paper as an idea to be shared, never bogged down by the technicalities of constructing in dimensional space, or even any spatial paradigm altogether. The history of the avant-garde can't—as Beatriz Colomina has pointed out—be separated from its engagement with media and communication. Building would move at the speed of thought and spirit, superseding calculation, regulation, codes, and existing infrastructure.

As I work, I contemplate my sense of being. I can render anything and the process will break down details of a representation into discrete points of colour that evoke thoughts within me of the concrete limits of fate and the disintegration of physicality.

Conceived in homage to architect James Stirling, who believed that urban design is integral to the practice of architecture and a vital topic for public debate, the /James Stirling Memorial Lectures on the City/ competition was inaugurated in November 2003 as a unique forum for the advancement of new critical perspectives on the role of urban design and urban architecture in the development of cities worldwide.

Such a concept of an autonomous, disseminated consciousness surpassing individual personality would, I imagine, tend to produce an ambiguity involving a dislocation of our individual conception of time (within which coming and going, beginning and end, are normally regarded) and confronting this "normal" view with an alternative, contrary sense of simultaneity or timelessness; switching the linear conception of time to which we are accustomed to a circular concept returning upon itself, as in Finnegans Wake. Likewise, if indeed the aesthetic image in a painting by Rembrandt is illuminated by Joyce's radiance or whatness, and if that revelation of whatness is achieved by an ambivalence in the role of the paint (involving a transmogrification of the paint itself into the image and vice versa), then these circumstances also may be said to produce that timeless or paratemporal quality, which we instinctively recognize in such a painting.

I do not attempt to illustrate ideas but rather to discover the sensory associations contained in the paint matter with which I work; as Cezanne or Monet did in front of a landscape. I too paint from nature, but my subject is a self portrait of my experience with the nature of painting itself. The external reality or landscape is reflected in the paint formations.

Path Beginnings the open road ramble proceed pavane feet of clay stray dogleg dead end detour crooked mile thrawn skewed skewwhiff ford slip trace roundabout repeated circuitous well-trod retrace accretions burnished shining glory endless skeins of time

The north to me had always been a place I visited for purposes other than painting. I thought the north, if it was to be painted, should be painted like the Group of Seven. Barns were to be painted in the manner of Syd Hallam or my father. Barry Kernerman picked out one of my newer pieces, and put it in the show. He generously put one of the semi-de Kooning things in too. Meanwhile, around the corner was The Greenwich Gallery where Av Isaacs was then building a stable. He already had Gerald Scott, Mike Snow, Gerry Gladstone, Graham Coughtry, and Robert Vavarande. My friend Coughtry recommended me to Av, so he came to see my work and said, 'I've got another young person I 'd like to show, so I think it might be an idea to have a two-person show.' The other person was Joyce Wieland. So, when I was twenty-three, I had an exhibition with Joyce Wieland at The Greenwich Gallery.

After seeing the show Burton and I turned on our heels, hurried back to the Villa Crispin into our individual studios, and did our first 'giant' abstract paintings, probably on four-foot pieces of masonite. They were somewhat similar and Ronald-like. Did we feel good! Somehow, there was some kind of relief. Still, for months, or maybe years, we were quietly nervous about the significance of such work - 'is abstraction really art?' - that kind of question. We always argued and discussed it. One night two senior painters, Cleeve Horne and R. York Wilson, came to visit. They were fantastic, so generous, genuinely interested and so encouraging. They had spent the evening priming pieces of masonite for their own work, and took it upon themselves to see what the young pups were up to. They talked for hours. They looked at our work, and never said anything negative (though I'm sure they must have thought it) but somehow managed to say 'keep going'. They were kind human beings, not authoritarian Victorian squashers.

  	/WINDOWS ON THE WATER/   	       "It is like trying to paint a soul."   	          -- Ruskin, "Of Truth of Water"
The impact of Harun Farocki's work was more than the howl of a dog in tune with his instincts.

This issue begins with /ArtAsiaPacific/ senior editor Don Cohn's investigation of the work of Taoist pyrotechnician Cai Guo-Qiang, who rose to fame with his explosion events at sights around the world, as he prepared for a landmark survey exhibition at New York's Guggenheim Museum. Cai, who was raised in China and also spent a seminal period in Japan before moving to New York, has transformed the iconic Frank Lloyd Wright rotunda with a site-specific installation that explodes, as Cohn envisions, "in orgasmic cataclysm, immediately thereafter reverting to a /yin/ state of cool repose and achieving a desirable balance in the process."

David Bolduc was our leading maker of poetic, lyrical colour abstract paintings and the inheritor of the mantle of modernism within the legacy of Jack Bush and Gershon Iskowitz. Bolduc, well-read and widely traveled, accumulated the lessons learned from a lifetime spent exploring the pleasures of the rich visual history of civilization. His works paid homage to his admiration for an inclusive array of places and traditions. His peripatetic wanderings took him to Paris, Spain, North Africa, Mexico, Turkey and the Middle East, China as well as clear across Canada. His art draws upon and celebrates our vibrant collective world artistic heritage: Persian miniatures, Oriental rugs African art, Asian calligraphy and the splendours of the inventive progressive art of the modern age.

Thinking about the aforementioned dichotomy between death as portrayed in the media and death as visceral, direct experience, I became aware that not even the real-time sensory experience of death, such as witnessing a murder, or stumbling upon a corpse on the street, could offer a true understanding of death. Death is an obscure, indiscernible reality. It is uncanny and cannot be completely (or at least satisfactorily) grasped.

I used to think a lot. I thought the world was full of voices. I thought that things were events, information hurling itself down through time. I thought that separateness was the fundamental quality of things. I thought that anxiety, formerly distributed homogeneously through space, had congealed into lumps and rhythmic patterns, providing the soil for more sophisticated and implausible anxieties, the flowering of anxiety into sentient forms. I thought that places were separate but miraculously linked, and that space and time and pleasure had emerged somewhere in the tension that occurs between places. I thought that the subterranean quality of all things was random and content free. I thought about the fatal attraction of singularities, patterns and significances, that draw us inexorably, like a magnet, but always sidestep gracefully just when we're about to gore them, because we don't live in God but outside of Him. I thought, /So what? It doesn't make my baby's eyes bluer/.

Kojève proclaimed that art would disappear in the universal homogenous state, and it probably did. No wonder funding is being pulled and artists are concerned with strategic withdrawal—everyone is bored sick of the waves of inflationary and depressive episodes of large-scale, bombastic zombie exhibitions. And yet swaths of participating artists pull out after realizing their works are being produced by a weapons manufacturer or the security company managing internment camps. It seems art does not end only because it has flowed into life, but also because its conditions have become too contradictory to be contained any longer. On the one hand, we might wonder whether a Sunni or Shia militia commander would say something similar about the internal contradictions of a puppet regime it seeks to topple. But, on the other hand, it is now being reported that the Sunni Isis militia is partly financed by antiquities taken from archeological digs in the crumbling state of

The angel imagery was replaced by the demonic in the 1984 exhibition at the Carmen Lamanna Gallery. In this exhibition the paintings illustrate images from the unconscious. Dreams. Fantasies. Contemporary icons � guns, cars, TV personalities and "punks" live with the flow into primordial devils.

While I have designed and installed 28 public art projects, it is my most recent environmental designs that I wish to talk about here to best give a sense of how I might approach future projects from an aesthetic and philosophical point of view. My work often uses light and wind to animate and transform the designed environment as the viewer moves through it.

Installation

Around this time Barry Kernerman opened the Gallery of Contemporary Art, and came to my studio. He was looking for young blood; I was very nervous. He said, 'Those great big women you are painting are de Koonings.' I said, 'How did you know?' By this time, however, I'd already started to edge away from this overwhelming influence and consciously ask myself who I was, what were my particular interests. Instead of painting large angry women, what about still life? What about the north? The land? Where's your sense of humour?

Few of our paintings were being sold. Av Isaacs, friends and wives helped, but it was a financial juggling act. To my surprise and delight, teaching invigorated me and the close association with dedicated young artists kept me from becoming insular; it forced me to verbalize ideas and ideals that otherwise might have remained foggy and vague. It was during the early teaching days that my obsession with the Ontario North took hold.

Canada

Benning lets the histories collide, not negotiating them in a documentary manner, but developing a geography of spirit. The emphatic atmosphere is created by the quality of Benning's view, which is highly concentrated and directed by the obsession to exceed mere narration. 
Americans against capitalism? Arab nations toppling autocrats through peaceful protests? 2011 has been a year of massive popular uprisings—on a completely unexpected scale and from populations that were thought to have been thoroughly subdued. Commentators have predicted that discontent in the Arab world would soon come to a head for so many years that it was beginning to seem unlikely, just as others had begun to dismiss the political potency of popular demonstrations in fiscalized Western democracies. For those who started to think that large-scale, radical optimism was naïve or nostalgic, the events of the past year should be sufficient to prove them wrong.

The construction of new and often private museums in financial centers and free trade zones from Abu Dhabi to Hong Kong seem to point to another function altogether, to a shift in the status of the museum from its conservatorial role in society to one that starts to look increasingly more computational. What are these strange new entities that hoard artworks as financial artifacts and use CAD-designed architecture to advertise a city or state? What do they do and what do they want from us? They are not just vanity enterprises used for laundering money. They are not just playthings for warlords and feudal states. They are not just showrooms for auction houses. Because many are doing the work of traditional museums—collecting, exhibiting, educating. What is new concerns the scale at which they are being built, and the peculiar way they suspend historical consciousness while desperately filling themselves with content.

technologies as a fundamental tool for the visibilisation and normalisation of those communities in the globalised world.

POWER STATION in Singapore will feature a white van traveling and stopping at various spots throughout the island. During each stop, the national anthems of selected countries will emanate from the van, while badges bearing words such as Art Power, Money Power and Media Power will
Method I begin drawing. Black marks onto a white surface. Organic manual tracings from the void into the light. I observe the immediate environment: walls, baseboards, floors, television sets, trees, moon, water, rain. Images from favourite picture books. The memory of another place or a person or an object may penetrate the surface. An unsolicited image may reveal itself. The drawing is complete when the marks have defined each element in accord with its momentary resolution.

*_Arseny Zhilyaev—Conceptual Realism: The Vulgar Freedom of Avant-Garde Museum Work_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/conceptual-realism-the-vulgar-freedom-of-avant-garde-museology> Indeed, the transformation of the museum into a work of conceptual art would have been an extraordinary event not only for the art of socialist realism, but also for the Western artistic quest of those years. Nowadays, the ideas of vulgar sociologism that the Proletkult workers and the representatives of the "sociological" school of museum display were charged with still sound horrible to most intellectuals.

This symposium brings together experts and collaborators to reflect on the diverse media blend created by the Japanese poet, photographer and books, films, photographs, and music are brought together to create a unique and powerful picture. Testifying to the vitality and multifaceted nature of mutual relations, /Side by Side/ explores the role of history and representation by crafting national and cultural identities. El Karchi is trying out the time-honoured genre of portrait painting and has something of the ‘fine painter' about him, whereas De Wit demonstrates daring and bravura in his paintings and sculptures, bringing together or ‘assembling' all kinds of things. *El Karchi and De Wit have a preference for figurative representation, especially of the human figure and its personifications.*
The part object is a constant throughout the work, even when the body is not directly represented. For example in Vanitas (1995) representations of garments and portions of garments taken from art historical sources point to the absent body as subject. Issues of survival, ephemerality and vulnerability are dealt with in the context of these fragments. The body is seen in my work as a region of the imagination, a territory of uncetainty.

The 32 gestural black ink paintings in /Notations/ are all on the same ground, a notepad reproduction of one Monet water lily painting. The reproductive dot pattern of Monet's image contrasts to the spontaneous ink painting in /Notations/. I purposefully chose Monet's water lilies as a ground because I believe that his later, large-scale garden paintings are an important reference for contemporary abstraction and immediacy in painting. Both Eastern and Western art history have a vast and important trace of large- scale gestural painting. Although there is a precedent in Renaissance painting for large- scale work, Monet is the first Modernist to create 42' stretched canvases. Monet's large water lilies were meant to engulf the viewer in the detail and power of nature, like /Notations/, thirty-two large format prints effect scale in juxtaposition to the intimacy and gesture of their handmade marks.

A DESCRIPTION AND REFLECTION UPON TWO RECENT WORKS/
Can a painting be a substitute for a "real thing" that arouses emotions? A cloudless view: the mirror and the other.

In this exploration the issue of identity is seen as an ongoing dialogue between the interior and the exterior, the private and the public, the imagined and the real, the poetic and the profane. Sited within languages of visual communication (paint, photography, and installation) this work intends to give expression to these forces in an effort to traverse the space between the interior and exterior projections of the body.

Yeats was in his thirties before he began to work regularly in oil paints and his early experiments in the medium remained realistic in style. His early subject matter was generally concerned with the documentation of a changing Ireland of that time, and reveals a fascination with the rituals of everyday life from political events to funerals, races and circuses. However throughout the 1920s a profound development came in Yeats' style. His handling of paint became much more free, his brushstrokes more loose and his outlines more and more blurred. It is interesting to note that his subject matter remained essentially the same throughout this change, but became imbued with a new, more mystical meaning.

Les images que l'artiste utilise sont souvent traitées et transformées par l'usage d'ordinateurs, de photocopieurs couleur et d'autres techniques photo-mécaniques. Elles sont éditées, altérées, déformées ou décolorées avant d'être combinées dans les œuvres avec des éléments de dessin, de peinture et d'autres techniques.

At the end of 1959, Kožarić spent six months in Paris, where he created the sculpture /Unutarnje oči /(Inner Eyes, 1959/60), an oval face out of which two rods reach toward the viewer like eyes. This sculpture introduced the artist's increasing preoccupation with negative volume and an inward directed view. 
Props, events, encounters: the performance of new sculpture takes its cue from Mike Kelleys description of the inherent structure at work in the objects that he uses in his performances. He ascribes to these objects a self-governing ordering system that is enacted as they appear in his work, a system that differentiates between objects that stay in may or may not be revealed to the viewer. Many of these objects, left behind in the gallery, are residues of past events, imbued with the melancholia of lost opportunities. Others are detritus, arranged not so simply. /Props, events, encounters/ seeks to address the following questions: How are contemporary artists changing the status of the object in their work? How might these modifications be aided and abetted by the presence of the viewer? How do such shifts in attitudes towards objects reflect a changing politics in the status of contemporary sculpture? Props, events, encounters: the performance of new sculpture is generously supported by The Henry Moore Foundation and Outset. In this international group exhibition drawing, by nature in flux and mobile, is combined with animation techniques to create disjointed, deeply affecting narratives. As Barry Doupé points out, "Commercial computer animation has been on an unsuccessful quest for humanistic realism, in that it often tries to reproduce the human form precisely". This exhibition exploits the capacity of drawing to bring characters to life, however basic they might be, a tradition much exploited through cartoons and caricature, and through simple animation techniques.

Tony Urquhart's first major retrospective was mounted by the London Regional Art Gallery in 1970, subsequent to which he began to serve widely on juries and, along with Chambers, was consulted concerning the establishment of the Canada Council's Art Bank collection. Other retrospective exhibitions were presented at the At Gallery of Kitchener (1978) and the Art Gallery of Windsor (1988), both of which toured extensively from Newfoundland to British Columbia.

My work tends to focus on the environment, the evolution of man and his material wealth, the development of bigger and bigger cities, more and more people, cars and industry on the planet and the consequences this has on nature. Some reviews have labeled my work as 'black humour' but I always try to depict a positive message too - the persistence of nature in recapturing what once belonged to the earth.

The first work, /Corner of the Studio/, was completed in march 1993. Although in fact in the spring of 1987, at the time that I photographed it, I was producing several large canvases (for instance, /My Heroes in the Streets/), none of this work is visible in the image. Therefore, what is represented in this earlier work is more a space for thinking than production itself. In contrast, the second series, /El Taller/, was photographed in the same studio space (to the right of the windows visible in /Corner of the Studio/) and is in effect a reprise, a ‘correction' of the intellectual ambience of the first work by emphasizing the physical fabrication of the work itself, and thus the studio as a working space' (in spanish, ‘/El Taller/').

*Coming soon:*
Jimmie Durham makes the first move in Dominó Caníbal, taking over the exhibition venue —the former Verónicas church in Murcia, Spain— and questioning the division between inside and outside in the Western sacred space: both a religious temple and an exhibition hall.

*It's a small world* is organised as a collaboration between Danish Design Centre, Danish Crafts and Danish Architecture Centre. The exhibition is initiated by the Danish Ministry of Economic and Business Affairs and the Danish Ministry of Culture.

Whereas Stewart's first loyalty is with the internal economies of the pieces as independent parts of an ongoing body of work. Stewart is more particularly concerned with the 'mapping' of meanings. While the instrumentality of the displacement of image and meaning is evident, it is taken to be symptomatic rather than causal in a social context. Images or fragments may reappear in several paintings, but with different treatments, scale and atmosphere, they serve a variety of ends. So that a given piece may employ elements with differing natures or mechanisms of effect to create a new mapping of meaning or signification. It is this variety, and especially these ends which are examined.

/Paysage, etc./ occupies two very precise spaces, the ground and the air, forming a homogeneous whole. Working with second-hand women's clothing in various shades of white that she takes apart and pieces together, Janet Logan suggests fragments of human bodies as she piles them up on the floor, on wooden crates and on an easel like dolls, stuffed animals or cushions. Abstract objects are suspended from the ceiling, juxtaposed next to each other, forming a whole that at first glance gives the impression of lightness and delicacy although some of the more prickly textures, certainly the metal, oppose that which is soft and comforting. A is tension created that, rather that being very menacing, seems to be the result of a certain anxiety. Moreover, this process of exhibition by suspension, amply used in the 20th century, was already highly valued in the 16th century -- for example, in the curio cabinets where one hung the most astonishing objects from the ceiling.

It was during this time that I began to do more work up north in Charlie's cabin, an isolated hunt camp, once owned by Charlie Clifton. His father bought the land in the twenties after the loggers were done with it. They took out all the virgin growth, the giant trees, but then it was growing again. I first went there with my mother and stepfather when I was between the ages of seven and ten years old, and the place hasn't changed a bit. There's an almost impenetrable three-mile road; you can't get a car in very often, it's that muddy and wrecked. I had to get a case of beer, a block of ice, a bag of groceries and a lady on the back of my motorcycle and get in there. That's another reason why it's virtually untouched. Unfortunately, there are more and more canoe trips coming down the river and the cabins are being broken in to.

And yet what rescues Fukuyama's intellectual integrity from those who prefer to set him up as a free-market huckster is how he so beautifully expresses reservations about the very posthistorical condition he professes. He closes the essay by writing:

If one looks more closely, it is easy to see that both liberal and Putinist-conservative understandings of the analogy between contemporary Russia and the USSR are mirror images of each other. *I'm not a strong believer in art departments or art schools. Maybe Emory's example is a good moment to examine their relevance. It's not clear yet if Emory's decision foreshadows the future of academia in the US, or if it's just a passing fad. Either way, these developments at Emory raise crucial questions: What function do art schools fulfill? Do we really need them? 

The bearish art market of the 1980s, so critiqued in the art theory of the 90s, has returned, more post-ideological, ahistorical and polyglot than ever. Despite the legacy of conceptualism, institutional critique and the anti-object, even the most radical gesture can now be co-opted, finding its way to a life as a material, archived, commodified object. It is difficult not to see the materialism and lack of direction in the art world as paralleling the crisis of what we call the "real" world, with its imperiled environment and world-wide energy shortages, and the frightening political ramifications of both.

I think now I've forgotten how to think. I feel like a hollowed out libidinous shell.

I had my first show at the Isaacs Gallery in Toronto when I was in third year art school. My influence was from Buffalo, directly from the Abstract Expressionists and in 1956 this influence was new in Toronto and the Toronto public thought my aesthetic - abstract expressionism - was really interesting. In January of 1958 I graduated from art school but I had already had my second one-man show at the Isaacs Gallery. I got married in July 1959, and went over to Europe in September, staying away for a whole year. I saw, in particular, works by Goya in The Prado, Madrid.

We are flesh-and-blood sentient beings who have never been to "the other side." What happens to our identity after death is open to debate, but there is one desire that unites the many differing camps: the need toexplain, understand and express our awe at the extinction of life, the end of all things, and to do the same regarding existence's possible continuation in an afterlife.

Will be off their heads
Joseph Dadoune and Anisa Ashkar invited Alexia to collaborate on multiple levels in their two new autonomous works, aiming at the creative collaboration between three artists coming from countries with similar sociopolitical characteristics, traditions and cultural qualities.

At the center of each Tibetan's life stands his or her unfaltering belief in Buddhism. Many of my photographs are taken in the monasteries of Tibet where the monks currently are rebuilding their religious communities following the destruction of over 6,000 of their monasteries by Chinese troops. /The Tibetans/ documents the living continuation of one of the most enigmatic and artistic world cultures, that of Tibetan Buddhism.

Just as artists are essential to the movement of armies, which gather around music, uniforms, flags, so does the artist have a pivotal role in determining the future of money, and the future of the economy. So why shouldn't artists create their own money? It will not be Monopoly money, but anti-monopoly money. It will be real money to the extent that people trade with it.

We have to admit that something very interesting is happening as the archival function of the museum becomes secondary, when the importance of the future or the past is superseded by the utility of the present, by the question of how to format an archive in such a way that it can be recognized and synchronized with other archives, with financial markets but also with the historical disenfranchisement of groups whose losses and pains have not been registered or quantified. These new museums seem to lack a methodology, and yet they are going to work collecting, stockpiling, caching, and building an archive at incredible speeds. What is this fortune of stuff that is actually being amassed, and how is it reformatting our own consciousness in turn? It may be interchangeable and interoperable with other archives, other markets, and other file systems, but is it legible?
The paintings and some of the etchings rework photographic portraits of groups of military personnel from different countries involved in WWI; to date portraits from Canada, the USA, France, Germany, Russia, Turkey, Belgium, India, Nepal and Italy have been completed. In each of these works special attention is paid to the individual parts that make up the whole: unique faces, and stances separate the one from the many, the individual from the group. Just as differences within each order are made apparent, similarities in circumstances from one to the other come to the fore. Regardless of personal belief or particular situation all participants are in harm's way, all are at war.

I don't use photographs as part of the painting process. I feel it is critical to get the details right and record both one's perceptions and misperceptions. The on-site experience allows me to choose which elements to emphasize, where to abstract, and, where to simplify or detail.

The Great Learning was a score in seven paragraphs, rooted in and acoustically generated by the Confucian text of the same name. Playing on the title of the great learning as it relates to The Knowledge and its own system of learning, and borrowing from the methodology, structure and political intent of Cardews score, Gibson and McCarthy have used both aural and non aural research into the knowledge as the generative principle behind composition. The score for ‘if the route' provides the basis for both realization of live performance and the radio works.

The result is an invasion that disturbs the Western notion of transcendental spatiality defined by a negation of chaos, of the living and the contamination of the world. If this bricolage contains a map of the world excluded by religious artifice, it is because it resists all representation and metaphor, in other words, any device that understands "meaning" as a rejection of immanence. One on hand, the project is the result of a process of research into the concrete: the inventory Durham gathered throughout the period of one month in the city of Murcia and its surrounding area, excavating in its industrial archaeology and the layers of culture and violence that compose it, and establishing an ongoing conversation with its inhabitants. The driving idea is in fact to bring to the surface "everything" excluded from the temple, not only in the accumulated mass of deposits, but also because each and every thing introduced into the church brings with it all that is associated with it, that substitutes for it and that involves it through proximity and contact. Technically speaking, we could say that Jimmie Durham's installation is a huge metonymic banquet.

Additionally, as in the /To Foil Oils/ the format remains essentially the same throughout the Plan for Paintings beginning with No. 24 through to No. 43. The only difference in format between the twelve works on exhibit varies regarding the four short, and four long strips of colour. Positioned in a clock-wise pattern those strips strife and converge with the other elements to create a multiplicity of concatenations of colour. And, those concatenations of colour are enhanced by the specific attributes of the concrete objective material properties of the hues. On that basis, a maximum pitch in the structure of the colour scheme can be realized through the intent to reveal explicitly - by virtue of the technical means - the sensations of the materials in association to the sensations of the colours.

more complex vision of the identity of this town through the approaches of several of the most acknowledged artists of the contemporary art scene. Gabriele Basilico (Milan, Italia, 1944) Fuoricentro. From the standpoint of a specialized tourist who goes beyond the monumental heritage, Gabriele Basilico proposes a detained look at the territory structured around three axes, which create peripheral urban nuclei. He did not need a lot of time to get familiar with the area through which the town grows, which he visited by car, a means of transport we all use when we live outside the town center. He stems from this idea to portray, rather than the buildings-objects, the consequences of our present lifestyle, when living is less dwelling and more moving between limits. painting, video, performance and installation. The subjects and issues addressed by the artists are varied and range from a formal discussion on the nature of the still life in painting, to poignant statements about violence in Latin America, to investigations on the nature of language, knowledge and history. A shared element found in the projects is an experimental, investigative, praxis: a discursive process whereby each artist attempts to arrive at definitions to question, but not necessarily to fully answer, complex layers of meaning found in everyday life. and moving beyond the traditional paradigms and stereotypes associated with art from Latin America, explained cifos Director Cecilia Fajardo-Hill. Through its *Grants and Commissions Programs*, cifohas set forth the goals of assisting artists produce work that may lie outside commercial viability and providing artists with a unique platform to present projects that engage local and international audiences alike. *cifo*, the Cisneros Fontanals Art Foundation, is a non-profit organization, established in 2002 by Ella Fontanals-Cisneros and her family to foster cultural and educational exchange within the visual arts.Emilia Azcárate creates a large-scale sculptural installation by weaving and interconnecting black hairpins. In this piece, a mundane objecta black hairpinis transformed, alluding to circular structures such as /mandalas/ and womens hair, both subjects which fascinate the artist. Seen from up close, the sculpture (Untitled) possesses a delicate quality. When beheld from a distance the piece achieves the opposite effect, becoming imposing and fence-like. Alessandro Balteos /UNstabile-Mobile/ interconnects the histories of art, power, and politics in an installation that comprises a visual component of texts and images appropriated from varied sources, and the construction of a sculptural piece. Balteo translates the organic formation of oilfields by constructing an unstable sculpture. The sculpture, influenced by the work of Alexander Calder, becomes a visual metaphor for the instability of the region.

*Erreakzioa-Reacción*, a collective formed by artists Azucena Vieites and Estíbaliz Sádaba, arose in 1994 as a space for developing projects between art, education and knowledge production around feminism. This group has constituted a pioneering initiative in Spain, as their fanzines introduced key texts and practices in a time that feminism was still entering Spanish Academia.

But in the more recent work, particularly /Corner of the Studio/ and /El Taller/, references to questions of production has signalled a shift in my work from an emphasis on questions of subject matter and signification to the aesthetic, ideological, and technical relations between painting and ph-tography. /Corner of the Studio/ and /El Taller/ were made especially for Galeria Tomas March of Valencia in 1993 and are related to each other in a specific way. Both works are of identical dimensions and formats. Both works consist of an arrangement of four canvases that combine photo-graphs of my studio with rectangular sections of inked impressions of plywood on acrylic.

The status of corruption may be said to lie at the division of visible and invisible labour, and at this tipping point it "acts out" and loops back into the body politic as a sentient character. The daily-wage worker and the cognitariat are equally implicated in this realm and made subservient to the uncanny sweep of the veiled hand of corruption. The social contract is breached repeatedly through its perverse pleasure fantasies and subterranean nightmares.

Leopold Plotek's titles invoke antiquity, scripture, mythology, Jewish mysticism, and Artie Shaw-and electic list that parallels the wide-ranging pictorial allusions of his mysterious, audacious paintings. Plotek aspires to the drama, seriousness, and sensuousness of the Venetian Renaissance and the High Baroque, ambitions that these days are usually synonymous with postmodernist irony and appropriation. The Montreal based Plotek, however, neither quotes verbatim nor updates historical compositions. Instead, he strives to invent in his own abstract language the qualities of past art that he admires-he casts the Grand Manner into late-20th-century terms and he filters the highest of high art through high modernism, all with street smart overtones.

Black Velvet: refers to both High (Megalographic-80‚s Schnabel paintings) and Low (rhopographic-roadside depictions of bull fights on domestic fabric) Art. Black velvet also possesses an inherent spatial quality.

*Ruben Grilo* (b. 1981, Lugo)  /El cuadro y el buzón/ (The Painting and the Letter Box) is the result of research carried out in various places in England and the USA into the figure of Samuel Slater and the origins of American conceptual art in the 1960s. The project has led, moreover, to a number of works in which, with the objective of reconciling research work and artistic work, accentuate the relationships between both contexts and endeavour to reveal a degree of reciprocity while avoiding furnishing a lineal interpretation of the project.

I was invited to Cleeve Horne's studio to meet his wife, Jean, who, much to my surprise, had a welding sculpture studio. Turns out she was the first person in the country working with welded steel. She said, 'Do you want some of that?' 'Sure do.' She said, 'Go to night school and learn how to weld and then come back.' I went back to Northern Vocational High and took the plumbers' night course. I left after the first six weeks, as soon as I got a good bead. I knew how to weld. I went back to her and she let me use her studio. I did my first few pieces in welded steel. She helped me a great deal.

These highways follow routes from one point to another, with converging and diverging overpasses and roads; they are spaces of passage. The architecture and landscape of these urban outskirts, with their airports and hotels, acts as a transitional zone passed through enroute to unknown destinations. These paintings often employ a single point perspective: the vantage point of the passenger during the journey. The viewer is the sole passenger in these empty vistas. Often one or two planes in the distance intersect the view. Some of the paintings depict the architecture of the side views off these transitional routes; frozen glimpses of anonymous industrial parks, interstitial fields, hydro towers and subdivisions. It is this unattainable frozen viewpoint, from which I experience these passing vistas via the photographic process that creates the sense of displacement.

Thirteen internationally renowned artists have travelled to the countryside to find inspiration as they remember their childhood and reflect on the nature of being a child today. They have created their works specifically for Gross Leuthen Castle, which during and after the Second World War served as an orphanage and has thus for over a half century been witness to hundreds of experiences, childrens dreams and childrens fates. Very different from one another, the rooms of the castle mirror the conglomerate of styles that characterise the whole structure. Their spellbinding diversity has served both as a challenge and inspiration to the participating artists.

critical manner. Rather than acquiesce to the current calamity, this exhibition asks if it is not time to push back against the disciplinary dictates of the capitalist logic and, by use of artistic means, launch a rescue of the very notion of the social itself.

EFA Gallery continues its inaugural season into the summer with /How I Finally Accepted Fate/ curated by Jason Murison. In a two-part framework of diary and fiction, /How I Finally Accepted Fate/ examines objects and images which function through memoir.

/Synopsis of Works/
These paintings happened in a funny way...

Ives Maes photographs any architectural remains of these short-lived events and the sites on which they were built, often revealing an ironic contrast between the grand futuristic ideals of the time and the urban reality of the modern world. The exhibition pavilions expressed a utopian vision of promise for the future. cooperation with Ghent City Archive).

Techniquement et d'office, je privilégie le grand format, l'acrylique pour sa maniabilité et la figuration pour son aptitude à favoriser la compréhension de mon propos. Toutefois, la lumière demeure indéniablement l'axe principal de ma recherche.

My resulting sculptural and installation work is multi-layered with uncertain depth of focus.Adapted from https://www.pinterest.com/vkartapart/:
My full time studio practice includes clay sculpture and printmaking. The work derives from interest in the tension of strength against fragility and as I push the work towards the edge of physical collapse, this theme becomes more potent. The work is hand-built and sculptural in nature. The use of light interplay provides a perceived fragility explored through stacking and channeling of hand-built clay platelets.

The first half of the exhibition presents artists who use aspects of diary as the conceptual foundation of their work. Many of these artworks start with an extremely personal experience or relationship and distance themselves through a project-oriented approach. For example, Matt Keegans abstracted photographic installations always start from a personal perspective, often using his boyfriend or his father as his subject. Jennifer Cohen also utilizes her own history, as a professional ballerina, to inform her sculptures that explore the quasi-cultural history of the ballet. In both cases, the use of memoir becomes a necessary springboard for larger conceptual structures; while other works in the exhibition memoir remains intact.installation of drawings is the fodder for her powerful lecture performances that combine the aspect of diary as travel log. In it she tells a tale of grief set within the shifting and often violent landscape that surrounds her. /How I Finally Accepted Fate/ celebrates artworks whose fictional scenarios and personal memoirs do not quite transcend the political, but rather, hover as artifacts of change.

Peu importe ce que l'on investit dans un travail, il n'y a aucune certitude que ce qu'on y voit, que ce qu'on y met, soit effectivement perçu. Ce qui est retenu ne se limite souvent qu'à un sujet, à une dimension anecdotique, narrative. Le regard critique est un regard extérieur; la distance critique que l'on peut prendre face à son propre travail reste toujours teintée, biaisée; le seuil d'appréhension est déjà franchi et la disponibilité n'a pas à être sollicitée. J'ai donc essayé de faire ce texte autour de mon travail, sans trop chercher à analyser, à rationaliser ni à justifier mes choix; en tentant simplement de transposer en mots la structure de pensée qui le génère, en la suggérant, en l'effleurant au lieu de l'affirmer, et en essayant de rendre une des particularités des arts visuels: une oeuvre peut être structurée par stratification, par blocs de sens qui coexistent simultanément, qui sont présents en superposition, mais sans qu'il n'y ait de hiérarchie obligée. Mais tout travail d'écriture partant d'un travail visuel demeure tentative de traduction, opérant le passage d'un mode de pensée à un autre, et un travail de traduction reste une interprétation, une approximation...

At school, the only class I really paid any attention in was art. I simply wasn't interested in anything else and I think my obsession with depicting the monotony of the work place and work force started there...

Gareth Brown-Jowett's /Semi Automatic Clips/ addresses how Hollywood films glamorize war. The artist has taken clips from /Saving Private Ryan, Apocalypse Now, The Patriot, Pearl Harbor, Full Metal Jacket, Platoon, The Thin Red Line/ and /We Were Soldiers/. The artist recuts them, preserving only images of the natural beauty of locales in which these film battles took place; in other words, highlighting what Brown-Jowett calls "the beauty of war." These images are combined with audio segments from battle scenes recorded at a reduced speed. The sound segments create an uncanny effect of anxiety, as if the fighting that one can hear in the distance will soon arrive and explode in full force like a tropical storm. Brown-Jowett asks, "If the director is attempting to create a realistic portrayal of war for the viewer, why have they chosen to include images of beauty?" It seems that the inclusion of these clips of natural beauty in Hollywood war films is merely a way to romanticize death and violence.

As the distinction between commerce and leisure is increasingly blurred, public space has morphed into a structure that is semi-private, semi-governmental and facilitates both commerce and entertainment. This panel considers how sustainable designwith its emphasis on energy conservation, efficiency, environmentally reflexive material specification etc. has been deployed in contemporary public space through developers initiatives and government subsidies, and to what ends.

The new paintings of 1989-1994 employ western symbols of the divine Child/Nature/Mysticism/Science, interested by current images from journalists, art, pornography and advertising. If these paintings "mean" anything it is in the way the pictures in them act on and resonate within the viewer.

In terms of formats or medium I am currently working in parallel between digital prints, interactive websites, stitched and woven images and some 3d experiments. Each medium allows for different visual interpretation or information to be included, has different technical requirements and presents different historical or cultural contexts.

On the back page: ‘Das Ding,' artist and writer *Brian O'Doherty* chooses The Sedan Chair as a special object of significance from his working and living environment.

This timeline wills itself to stay as precise as possible in terms of dates, names, observations, and comparisons. Learning from HF: each sentence—recorded, pictured, drawn, written, or spoken—is potentially a (never complete) archive of books and films as much as of thoughts and gestures.

Starlings are swirling in flocks and oscillating against a blue sky. The small specks of black create a community of form, a single body of communication, riding the currents of air where individuals cluster then disperse as a unified body of flapping wings.

PAM creates a dynamic sensory environment that allows the artist and the viewer to participate in the curatorial process both at Scope New York and on the web at www.perpetualartmachine.com <http://www.perpetualartmachine.com/>. performers stand opposite each other–their hands are on each others shoulders as they awkwardly navigate into the social greeting of a distant air kiss. Just when the sexual tension between the two becomes unbearable, the performers slowly reverse the sequence of their previous gestures until they are air kissing once more. Craft Restaurants Chef Tom Collichios hip and award-winning sandwich bistro. wichcraft uses top-quality ingredients often from small, artisinal producers and professional cooking techniques to create a superior handheld meal. Served daily throughout the fair. Relax on Stark furniture from Kartell. renovated to become a new Center for Contemporary Art. 

White Tiger (Kenny)
This probably had an influence on making me into a landscape artist, which is basically what I would define myself as. I have done very little figurative work; I've never really been interested in the human figure. One reason is that I didn't go to the Ontario College of Art. Drawing the figure was the subject most taught at the College and everyone who went there came to rely heavily on the human figure. Unlike most of my contemporaries, through sheer chance, (because it was easier to commute to Buffalo from Niagara Falls than to Toronto) I got my training at the Albright Art School (a division of The Fine Art Department of the University of Buffalo), which I attended from 1954 to 1958. My teachers were Seymore Drumlevitch, still an important painter in Western New York, Larry Calcagno, who was with the Martha Jackson Gallery in New York, and Don Nicholls, a very good advertising design teacher who is still there, and also Robert Bruce, a Canadian who taught illustration. Bruce was very interested in control of depth and in weaving space through a painting. Sensitivity to things like that I think are vitally important for a landscape painter, even though they may not be directly used.

What is important to me in these works, as the outcome of a formal experiment in effect, is that this optical complexity derives from a few direct, opaque, almost granular (in the sense that the illu-sion of deep space is, upon close inspection, confounded by the clearly visible grain of the canvas sur-face) technical devices — a self-reflexive, theoretically problematic visuality produced by an economy of means This opticality engages the devices which produce it. This is a ‘process of seeing which invites the spectator to become an ‘optical producer' as well as spectator — creating a theater for contemplation upon the act of seeing and the mechanics of representation. This interactive drama plays out what is essential to all radical pictorial art, not the formulation of frozen iconic emblems that ‘illustrate' ideas, but the active recognition (I stress the dynamic aspect here — ‘seeing it new') in the ‘minds eye' during the contemplation of pictorial art of our own comparative experiences of the visual complexity of everyday life. New pictorial art provides the ‘codes' for experience. It tunes the eye. This fundamental function is the ‘grounding' of experiential rationality. As such it is truly classical, but also modern in its experimental self-consciousness, so that the process of seeing itself comes again under examination as a subject for pictorial art — as it did during the experiment with linear perspectival systems of representation as formulated by Alberti in the 18th century, and the dissolution of these perspective systems in the evolution of modernist abstraction, in particular during the early years of cubism.

The paintings in my exhibition straddle an area between representation and abstraction. Unlike representation, they begin their lives as a series of completely random markings made from brush loads of left over paint from prior works. Yet as they evolve, they seem to suggest a figure/ground relationship. Unlike abstraction, a narrative becomes implied. Like the "new kid in the school yard", the paintings are inhabited by strange figures trying to adapt to the new world that they find themselves in.

The central aim of my art practice is to demystify established cultural constructs by involving the viewer in the humorous debunking of idealized images, concepts and paradigms. I collect images from films, television programs, literature and popular music and transpose these images within a performance art setting, or distill them into installations wherein these components are manipulated, juxtaposed, contrasted and collided against each other, thereby eliciting a shift in perception and understanding.

While these works are focused on the social and cultural mechanisms underwriting the First World War, they are nonetheless relevant in relation to international conflict today. The retrospective look allows a long view of the nationalist and heroic rationalizations fueling the engines of war.

There cannot be a more exciting tool with which to explore the most mysterious and fascinating subject known to mankind -- the human mind.

Absent the awareness of the different levels of analysis at work in political economy, "capitalism" inevitably elevates distinct and conflicting relations within and between the modes of consumption, circulation, production, and distribution, confusing them with an overwhelming para-natural force: the creation of surplus value, or what I have called "alchemy." The result is that, in one way or another, every "capitalism" is always already a spiritualism, a mystification that places the actual levers of collective emancipation out of reach.

I make work about how messages are communicated and received. These are times of information overload, and being able to respond to what is important becomes increasingly difficult.

The Artist represents a young woman crouching on the ground surrounded by a protective aura. The attitude of the body represented in a defensive and gentle position seems to ask for help and protection; the aura appears to be the Divine aid the young lady is looking for. The lady is lying disoriented in a fetal position: she doesn't know where to go, what to do, whom to rely on... but like a new birth will regenerate new energy to face life!

The /Plan for Painting Series/ would not have been made possible without my having gone through the psychological process of perceiving an end in art as an end. That is to say, an end in art is not an end until it is perceived. Happily, a vulnerability in the emotional, and psychological content of the Plan for Paintings invite viewers to engage objects that are in effect visually addictive. Or encourage viewers to encompass, and embrace a visual process complimentary to their sustained anticipation of the work. Such an addiction to vision resides through viewers identifying with their aesthetic appreciation of the depth, and scope of perception contextualised by the conceptual, and plastic limits of abstract painting.

The canvases have the look of reflecting panels which convey the ghost-like presence of the underlying paint while absorbing and rendering the external surrounding space of the piece. The canvases on the floor, as sculptural elements, are conceived as rejects, surging to the value of possibility/potential.

Samuel Becket.B. Yeats
In the series Home Invasion, for instance, the suburban subdivision is explored photographically. For this work, I made colour panoramic photographs documenting rows of nearly identical assembly line homes at various stages of construction in order to question the implications of uniformity and assimilative living practices.

I incorporate direct observation as well as photographs of scenes which I stage using live models and costumes. The process of working back and forth from model to photograph to canvas can continue for many months, creating a layering of reality and narrative interpretation. My technique is loosely based on the pre-impressionist oil painting process of laying glazes over a well delineated underpainting. Beyond the dramatic effects of light and dark which underpainting and glazing allow, this technique gives me a deep sense of continuity fundamental to my narrative expression.

I centre in my work a deal with a political and sociocultural reality, with objects, images, texts that move and disturb the status by questioning its meaning and appearances, by overturning the relations between the work and its space, and by instituting the viewer as an essentiel component of the work's sense.

Tony Urquhart's book illustration has put him in collaboration with such authors as his wife Jane, Michael Ondaatje, Matt Cohen and Louis Dudek. His work is prominent in the collections of such institutions as New York's Museum of Modern Art; the Victoria and Albert Museum in London, England; the Hirshorn Collection of the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C.; the Bibliotec National in Paris; the Museo Civico in Lugano; and the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis.

The concrete, repetitive nature of this work frees my imagination and provides many opportunities for happy accident and grace to influence the finished product.

If you have driven through the streets of most suburbs, you have seen the row houses of equivalent design, decoration, and setback. Such standardization seems depressing to you, but the important thing is that it seems even more depressing to the suburbanite. As a consequence, an enormous amount of effort has been spent by suburbanites to make their homes different from those on either side and across the street. The more identical things are, the more he seeks some distinctive touch to symbolize and validate any particular tract house as his house.

But as winter takes hold in many parts of the world, another kind of doubt begins to set in, with a tinge of disappointment that circumstances in many places that saw the most intense uprisings have not actually been significantly transformed for the better. The removal of dictators has only peeled back the top layer of societies with endemic problems that must be addressed by a renewed sense of civic society. The 99% remains at the mercy of the 1%. The military crackdown in Syria remains unbelievably bloody. An enormous swell of hope that was felt throughout the world earlier this year now seems like it could be orphaned by setbacks, by the scale of brutal realities that seemed as if they were starting to crack open.

The self, terrible and constant, is for me the subject matter of painting.

Gradually the relations between the figures I made became freer and more subtle, and now I see my works as groups of objects relating to each other. Although ultimately each can and does stand alone, the figures can be grouped in various ways and fashions, and each time the tension of their relations makes for a different formal arrangement. For this reason the figures are placed in the ground the way people would place themselves in the street to talk to each other. And this is why they grow from a single point--a minimum base of immobility which suggests an always possible change. In my most recent work these relations become clearer and more intimate. Now the single work has its own complex of parts, each of which is similar, yet different from the others. But there is still the feeling with which I began-the drama of one among many. The look of my figures is abstract, and to the spectator they may not appear to be figures at all. They are the expression, in abstract terms, of emotions and states of awareness. Eighteenth-century painters made "conversation pieces"; my sculptures might be called "confrontation pieces." Louise Bourgeois, 1954 SOURCE: Reading Abstract Expressionism: Context and Critique, Ellen G. Landau, ed., New Haven and London: Yale University Press, 2005, 180f. Originally published in Design Quarterly, no. 30 (1954), 18. The Anti-artist-statement Statement 2010--Uncategorized USA Hyperallergic Iris Jaffe /I hate artist statements. Really, I do./ /As an artist, they are almost always awkward and painful to write, and as a viewer they are similarly painful and uninformative to read./ /I also don't know who decided that artists should be responsible for writing their own "artist statement." Maybe it was an understaffed gallery in the 1980s, or a control freak think-inside-my-box-or-get-out MFA program director, but regardless of how this standardized practice came to be, the artist's statement as professional prerequisite (at least for artists who have yet to be validated by the established art world) has long overstayed its welcome. And I don't think a new one should be required in its place.

Identity isn't given once and for all: it is built up and changes throughout a person's lifetime. Amin Maalouf, /In the Name of Identity/
USA

Have you ever had one of those moments of absolute clarity - where self, landscape, and context instantly fuse into coherent understanding, and history's continuum opens out before you like a long, deep gorge? This work comes from such a moment.

The ritual then was to go out with your sample kit to job interviews and become a junior apprentice in an engraving house or an advertising agency. All this time I thought that my father, well known with lots of connections, would get me a job. The bright thing he did (though I didn't think so then) was to tear out three yellow pages listing Commercial Art Houses, hand them to me, and say 'Take your samples, start with "A", and walk.' So I did. Three pages later, at the very bottom, I landed a job with a company called Wookey, Bush and Winter. In the old puritan ethical way, I had learned a lesson. I found myself working with Les Wookey, a marvelous designer, Jack Bush, whom we all know, and Bill Winter, the charming painter of children. /What an opportunity!/ I answered the phone, delivered parcels, and cleaned water bowls every morning. I was at the office before they were, made the coffee according to their wishes, cleaned out the ash trays and got used to saying, 'Good morning, Wookey, Bush and Winter.' I was of no use to them whatsoever except in this capacity. I was incapable of doing anything near their quality of commercial work at that time. When my duties were done, I was supposed to sit and practice.

3. The photographer must also become something of an organic chemist. Complex solutions are carefully mixed from scratch, and measured out in tiny amounts, to make the light-sensitive emulsion that will coat the paper. Solid platinum is dissolved with potassium and chlorine in a series of acid baths; the acid is replaced with water, and the solution is crystallized into a platinum salt. This is combined with light-sensitive iron salts (ferric oxalte). Modern platinum printers usually intermingle platinum with palladium of iridium salts, to produce subtle variations in "warmth" (soft brown color) and contrast. The photographer must rely upon experience and instinct-and good luck-to achieve the desired effects.

While, clearly, intellect plays a significant role in the process, more important is my desire to embed an emotional code into the paintings. Through a subjective and intuitive process of trial and error I am developing a language built of marks that is, not surprisingly, very difficult to quantify in words.

Le mur est de la galerie reçoit en après-midi une tache de soleil qui le balaie d'un bout à l'autre; le soleil entre par les fenêtres du mur nord. C'est que l'est et l'ouest qui servent de repères dans cette ville sont décalés par rapport aux points cardinaux. La géographie urbaine ne coïncide pas avec la réalité géographique, ce qui nous permet d'avoir du soleil nord nord-ouest. Ce ne sont peut-être que deux systèmes de conventions qui se heurtent; et puis les choses sont souvent autres que ce qu'elles semblent être. Ce type d'idée reçue conditionne cependant la perception et le rapport à ce qui nous entoure, insidieusement.

In essence my goal is to make works that simply dissolve the line between emotion and intellection, between art and nature, and transcend to a state of being, of pure existence for its own sake; for its own beauty and pain; for its own vulnerability and timeless qualities. My aim, my desire, is to create paintings that reflect both on history and on the immediacy of today through subtle and abrupt changes that reveal the dichotomy of what is presented and what is understood.

Su-Ying Lee purposely seeks to understand this reality. The death of her brother and the pressure of traditional Chinese culture to provide for her aging father instilled her with a great sense of guilt. Her video /Spiritualized/ features images of a decaying fish on a beach, covered in flies. As the camera closes in on the flies, a soothing, guided-relaxation- recording voice accompanied by a Tibetan prayer bell directs the viewer to "relax" and "let go" in order to achieve "mindfulness in sound." The process of bodily degeneration is important to the artist, as she contemplates approaching old age, her own mortality and the deterioration of her own physical body.

For example, Tomlin's abstract painting No. 12, 1952, oil on canvas, 66" x 48", collection of the Albright-Knox Art Gallery, Buffalo establishes two forms of perception that are fundamental to the development of abstract painting. That is, Tomlin by having painted a loose pattern of flat, white bars on top of a tight pattern of flat, coloured bars, usurps a previously claimed aesthetic space. Such a visual device entails viewers making distinctions about the difference between the elements that make up the narrow space if the painting. Together, these two principle forms of perception represent a balanced interrelation between the three components of abstract painting: the abstract, the real, and the symbolic.

The interface between the inner and the outer selves is the 'skin' - the porous membrane through which the body's inner reality rises to the surface, and the external world is absorbed and internalized. The painted or photographic surface, as visual language, is analogous to this dimension of communication from the interior and exterior body.

*_Armin Linke—In His Reading Chair_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/in-his-reading-chair/>

"every day I'm making ground..."2

could conclude from this is that if we can speak of the art of the world fair in terms of propaganda—keeping the Venice Biennale in mind as our starting point—we should do so not from the superstructural role of the artwork itself, which serves mainly as a decorative function of ideals of civilization and innovation, but in relation to the underlying uncontested base that facilitates this exchange of goods. A further, more interesting conclusion could be drawn relating the United Arab Emirates to the doctrine of democratism, a political construct that dispenses actual electoral, parliamentary representation. 

In the modern world, however, we appear to resist such significant integrating imagery, which was more evident perhaps in past cultures, wherein people seem to have regarded the passage of time rather more ambivalently, as being at once related to their personal predicament and to a larger cosmology.

In Raunig's analysis the university, and the humanities in particular, are a political matter, not because of their supposedly "disinterested beauty," alienated from any social and political context, but precisely because they constituted a zone of critique, resistant to marketization and financialization, and they therefore enrich the cultural experience of contemporary individuals.

Recent paintings have led me to believe in the metaphysical possibilities of my art­ a painting revealing a measure of its own objectecness­ the very mystery of just being there.

Actually, there is a quite a bit of dancing in Marx. To begin at the beginning, there are his poems, written for his distant love and ballroom baroness, Jenny von Westphalen, who waited for him seven long years as he studied to get his degree. Marx's poetry reaches out to its promised partner with memories of the ballroom, or so one imagines, interrupted by long, if chaperoned, afternoon strolls. The verses whirl and twist, curl and rust. These are generic salon rhythms, hammered out somewhat mechanically, but the goal is earnest enough: to protect transcendent love and shared ideals from the dirty world.

Basically realized with instinctive and creative approach, the Artist intends to vent all her concerns and insecurities giving birth to an original Painting where the contrast between the colors and the symbolism of letters and numbers shapes an astonished woman looking for herself into an unknown dimension. Its deep intensity sounds like the solo of a vibrant electric guitar: the dynamic alternation of the colors let ideally perceive the reproduction of notes and rythm of a Rock soundtrack.

The change has created the need for expanded expression Where will it lead?
It has been difficult for me to reconcile my late 20th Century sensibilities with my obsession with chronicling the seasons passing over my pond in Flesherton. Lately, I have come to think that the need to paint my environment comes simply from existing as a northern person who is constantly engaged with surviving our extreme elements. The northern experience is tied to the sun's retreat into long cold nights and the fleeting endless days of summer. The forces of Nature are etched as deeply in our psyches now as when Tom Thompson, Emily Carr and the Group of Seven were making their paintings in the true north strong and free. Today, in 1996, I work in a spirit much like theirs. I continue to find a source of regenerating creative power for my work in the relentless force of nature.

"you, who are on the road, must have a code you can live by…"3
Tarpaulin: as defined by the dictionary is canvas impregnated with tar, much as painting is impregnated with assumptive vocabulary.

Also in 1977, "competition" became the crucial word for the economy, whose project was to submit human relationships to the singular imperative of competition. The term itself became naturalized to the point where saying "competition" was like saying "work." But competition is not the same as work. Competition is like crime, like violence, like murder, like rape. Competition equals war.

A ruin definitely alludes to the dissociation of ubiquitous artworks, lost in their photographic "entombed" time. Hopeful ruins resist their representation by being fragmented and, like raw material, ever again available. They point out the fragility of images, which are just thin illusions, doomed to fail our expectations, doomed eventually to crumble. This explores the question of taboos in our society, reflecting on their meaning and nature in relation to the concepts of power, defeat, democracy, sexuality, idealism and integration.

deafness, sign language 1
/Jackson Pollock: Blind Spots/ is curated by Gavin Delahunty, Hoffman Family Senior Curator of Contemporary Art, Dallas Museum of Art, with Based in Sao Paulo, artist Jac Leirner is one of the most emblematic figures of the Brazilian art scene in the last fifteen years. Most of the time, she creates sophisticated abstract compositions made out of our society of consumption's rejected items. She collects cigarettes packets, plane tickets, envelopes, leaflets, stickers and museum shops' plastic bags, all of which she then turns into artworks, thanks to a patient work of filing and installation. She often finds her materials during the frantic duration of her journeys; what comes out of it reflects her enduring interest in visual design and in the ways business and culture interact. a new, transnational generation of artists looking to the art of the 1960s and 1970s as a point of departure. Leirner's meticulously constructed works carve out a place for commonplace objects, from cigarette packs and plastic shopping bags to cutlery and currency. In this, the first in-depth study of Leirner's creative process, Nelson interviews the artist about more than two decades of production. excellence in visual-arts education. The CPPC achieves these goals through the preservation, presentation, and study of the material culture of the Ibero-American world—ranging from the ethnographic to the contemporary. CPPC activities include exhibitions, publications, grants for scholarly research and artistic production, and the internationally-recognized education initiative Piensa en arte/Think Art.

This photographic element of /Corner of the Studio/ is in fact a single image cut into four parts. The photograph was first cut in half, after which a rectangular section was then cut from each half, thus providing four segments that were then laminated onto separate canvases, all of which were arranged to approximate the coherence of the original photograph. The specificity of each segment, which is identified by its photographic information, is also determined by the dynamic spatial contrasts, textures and colours of the ‘abstract' sections of the canvas area which replace the areas of the ‘cut-away' section of each part of the original photograph, and thus this excision of photographic space has provided a catalyst for a latent painterly practice.

On one level, it is simple common sense to suppose that one can only begin to write after learning how to read. But, at the same time, this ordering also takes for granted that consumption must necessarily come before production; only after you consume knowledge will you then be capable of producing it. It is a fundamental understanding of learning that is typical of the master-apprentice model found in craft guilds. The problem arises when the language to be learned has not yet been invented, or the practice of a craft is not controlled by a guild.

My recent paintings have led me to believe in the codification of colour: painting revealing a measure of its own objectness; the very mystery of it being. The painting takes something from the artist and in turn has its own presence.

representative of the Estonian exposition at la Biennale di Venezia.  

Because of an incident, which involved our gang vandalizing the school, I was expelled. This ominous turn of events embarrassed and hurt my parents. I am neither ashamed nor proud of it. I only mention it because it led to a complete change of the utmost importance in my early life. I was put into the hands of my father and went to his studio downtown. Art Circle had been dissolved and he had gone with Bomac Engravers as an independent illustrator. He also worked solo as a freelancer. I worked in his studio from nine to five doing lettering samples for three weeks. I loved it because it was like being grown up. Throughout my early teens my father taught me technique and I was getting more and more interested in art. By then I had decided I wanted to be a commercial artist. I had no real sense of fine art, even though there were paintings and reproductions around my father's apartment and he painted part-time. I wanted to do work that was partially abstract, like the jazz album covers by David Stone Martin. The na�ve dream of every young artist then was to do a cover for the Saturday Evening Post; not necessarily like Norman Rockwell, but of that quality.

My work is a means of creating connections between political or social issues and the viewer. I am interested in the evocative potential of the narrative aspects of an issue and in opportunities to transform. My subject matter is often rooted in the specific concerns of the communities I live in. In the past I have utilized an analytical presentation of the facts. /Within Between/ (1988) explored the immigrant's state of living between countries. /But, what does feminism mean to us now?/ (1991-92) investigated feminism's status at a specific moment in time for a given community. /America Searches for Content: the L.A. Times Screen/ (1991) revealed the narrative structures underlying our reading of the local daily news, and /Scenic Sites/ (1996-97) examined the unacknowledged injustice of WW1 Canadian internment camps. In each of these works it was my intention to make the invisible narrative facts visible using diverse media: printmaking, bookworks, billboards, performance, community-interactive installations. My current work is based primarily in multimedia installation art and remains research-based, experiential and community-oriented. /Spinning on Uncertain Ground/ (2000) used a town in the Central Valley as a microcosm of the world, exploring the invisible forces of time and place that shape our individual and collective realities. A new focus for me in this work now is in creating /spaces for environments/ in which the viewer is aware of his or her own sensory responses to the issues, approaching these from the intuitive knowledge of the body rather than from the rational.

Impact of Mobility on Space and Time: The idea of a modern-day odyssey arises from a reflection on the global phenomenon of mobility in both its spatial and temporal dimensions. We would like to invite artists to investigate this situation by reflecting on how they can go beyond geo-political borders and explore terra incognita, going back and forth between the past and the future, towards a new horizon for what Thomas Friedman calls our " ‘flat' world."re: http://hollyrowanhesson.co.uk/artist-statement/

For the completion of my "Last Pony" project, I started working with a photograph of the painting just as it was being finished in the studio, standing on paint buckets on the floor. Examining that image in a digital program, I could see the wide array of colour schemes I could have used for the original painting. The computer, that is, provided options — "colourways" to use a term from commercial textile production — that were almost unavailable in a traditional studio.

Although, seen in a broader art-historical context, the painting of the power, placing the viewer in the world of video game images, cut up and put together again by Chris Finley in postpop cubist style. In his sponsored booth, the Swiss artist Lori Hersberger (mezzanine) shows a multimedia installation with a wall painting in fluorescent luminous colors, neon light and a broken mirror. The art duo Tim Noble and Sue Webster (Modern Art), who place seemingly randomly chosen piles of household garbage in a dark room and illuminate them with a bright light, creating perfect silhouettes of the artist duo, may also be considered as related to the field of painting. For «Art Statements» the two artists are suggesting an ambitious 360º installation.The dissection of differing cultural norms also becomes clear in the work of the Japanese artist Tam Ochiai (Tomio Koyama Gallery) and the Nigerian artist Odili Donald Odita (Florence Lynch Galllery). While the Japanese artist transforms his great interest in western culture, film, literature, the world of fashion, and advertising into an installation, the Nigerian artist in his multimedia work manipulates cultural boundaries, exposes cultural imperialism, and plays with stereotypes of western culture. temporal marker to spark debate about how and when the first new theoretical and artistic ground was broken, positing the point at which the "expanded arts" of the Sixties could first be glimpsed. Choosing a field of radical invention before the leading names and terms of the decade were critically and historically defined—considering precursors such as Anna Halprin and John Cage, and breakthrough 1961 work by figures such as La Monte Young, Robert Morris, George Brecht, Henry Flynt, Simone Forti, Jackson Mac Low, Walter de Maria, George Maciunas, Ray Johnson, Emmett Williams, Nam June Paik, Yoko Ono, et al—the exhibition traces the initial crystallization of certain key ideas. At the center of this is the musical score, subjected to unprecedented experimentation, which became the ur-model for all the arts, rupturing disciplinary and medium specificity, revealing a newly activated creative field that extends from the postmodern to now.

Now, all the signs say there is a good chance much of this support will dry up, and that before too long we will all be poor. But at the same time, this likelihood is not the result of a single political agenda (though many politicians in places like the US and the Netherlands welcome the cuts), but a much broader series of collapses in a global economic system that by now eludes the possibility of identifying clear ideological friends and enemies. The problem really affects us all.

I consider all this work, and my interest in Duchamp, as proto-conceptual and an important part of media and intellectual exploration. He unlike Matisse and Picasso became an important artist by abandoning painting. The counter tradition to painting for photography, collage and installation is what occurs for a younger generation of artists in the late 1960s in Vancouver.

I'd make my newspapers, pecking away at the typewriter about what happened in my district or what happened when I went swimming the day before. We'd always need headlines and my father would come over and letter them in. they were really fantastic pieces because they were all rubbed out and had spelling mistakes and paste-in changes. Actually, this was my introduction to typography, layout and design. I cut out pictures from real newspapers and put them in mine; I suppose these could be considered my first collages, although I wouldn't have known the word then.

My interest and purpose was to continue the wit and further the play making of his work as an intimate and consecrated site of procedural inventiveness. I consider his work to be photo-conceptual, and by the late 1960s and early 1970s it was becoming evident that Marcel Duchamp could be considered as a precursor of conceptual art. In addition to the photo collages, I have included related works by or about Duchamp, magazines, editions, ephemera, photographic facsimiles/appropriations, books and correspondence.

*The Guimet Museum *For four years, the Guimet Museum—Europe's richest collection of Asian arts—now grants a space to contemporary art through partnerships with other institutions or galleries, creating specific events. By displaying contemporary pieces close to ancient artefacts within patrimonial exhibitions or permanent collections, the museum underlines the importance between past and present civilisations from the Extreme-Orient and Occident.

On other frontiers, Gina Fairley explores the social dynamics of motorcycles and sporting subculture on barren Australian highways through the work of Shaun Gladwell. Rebecca Catching discusses the work of video artist Lida Abdul, a participant in the fifth edition of Asian Contemporary Art Week in New York who is also short-listed for the suspended by the energy of performance. And in regards to museums, it wonders what is possible to acquire for future generations, and how should performance be displayed?The third chapter on 5 April is composed of case studies of different histories of performance art within the field of visual arts, in different geographies, throughout the twentieth century. It discusses how and why these histories are being recuperated, translated and integrated or on the contrary excluded from the new institutional realities of contemporary art. Which histories are privileged and which ones are dismissed? Does the new paradigm of performance need these histories and are these histories legitimate historical precedents for this new paradigm? Or is the new performance turn too much a product of our times and its roots in the performance art of the late avant-garde too vague? Participants in this section include *KuroDalaiJee*, author of /Anarchy of the Body/, art historian, Japan, *Georg Schoellhammer* (Vienna-based editor, author, curator and editor-in-chief of springerin awe syndrome and generate a kind of interactivity with the viewer.

Working with the union movement and communities has other implications. It begins to address the division of labour between wage work and creative work by demystifying the construction of each and pointing to similar social/economic constraints. It also begins to articulate a cultural politic around the democratization of access to cultural resources.

I empathize with these swans. Fat flying snakes, meandering, labyrinthine momentum that has evolved a proud vertical architecture under the drag of gravity, and an appearance under the imperative gaze of others. These swans, in their proud maturity, are the hollowed out libidinous shells of a vanity, erect in the posture of pride and dignity. They are magnificent dinosaurs, monsters, heroic, tattered, ramshackle, bewildered and aghast. They are disbelieving and incredulous at the tide of ignorance and vanity rising in their wake. They are confronted by the cherubs – tender sensual particles, seed and fruit of the erotic body. They arch their feathers and rise to their full stature, doomed dignity confronted by the insolent self-assurance of the future. They are aghast before the naked cherubs, horrified at the vulgarity of youth, beauty and accomplishment. They are birdbrains. They are stunned, brainless, hollowed out erections addled by subtle termites, threatened and besieged, appearances betrayed by their own interiors, feathered shells out there on their own trying to make a go of it, wondering how many more times they will be obliged to unfold their arthritic peacock tails.

*_Christa Blümlinger—An Archaeologist of the Present_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/an-archaeologist-of-the-present/> He himself liked to speak in metaphors and analogies; his line of argument often took pictorial detours, forming chains and series much like his shot sequences.

exhibition is integral to the artwork; artist On Kawara embeds this in his work, just as for the decade of 1968–1979 he recorded his daily movements on maps of the cities he traversed. Marking his movements in red on the city maps attested to the artist's physical presence, systematically and almost ritually. Japanese artist Rei Naito will continue this contemplative exploration with the artwork /Pillow for the Dead/: organza "pillows for the dead" illustrating our final voyage delicately, ephemerally, recalling the ancestral traditions surrounding the dead.

In Dublin, now some sixty years ago, the great physicist, Erwin Schroedinger, astonished me with the thought:

Her first solo exhibition in the UK, this introduction to Geta Brătescu's singular vision comprises significant works from 1970 to the present day and includes a newly commissioned large scale collage for the entrance of the gallery. Brătescu (born 1926) studied fine art and literature in Bucharest and developed a practice that encompasses textiles, printmaking, performance and installation. She places a particular emphasis on the act of drawing across different media, stating "for me, the line is the essence." In recent years, Brătescu's distinctive practice has focused on collage, or "drawing with scissors" as the artist describes it. Her work has remained consistent in her questioning of identity and our place in the world, and her dedication to the drawn line. 

After forty-five years of painting in this direction a change

As forms go, the readymade is a slippery one. Its originator, Marcel Duchamp (1887–1968), spoke of it as "a form of denying the possibility of defining art." Now, as the form nears its 100th anniversary—Duchamp made his /Bicycle Wheel/ in 1913—the Contemporary Arts Museum Houston presents /It is what it is. Or is it?/, a group exhibition that//explores /how/ the form has changed. If any one characteristic of the form is consistent, it is not only formal, but also philosophical. The readymade unites material concerns with the invisible function of thought. It avoids participating in what Duchamp called ‘retinal' culture—the development of a solely visual and stylistic aesthetic in favor of one that unites material, physical, and formal concerns with ideas, philosophies, concepts, and feelings. Duchamp's point, we seem to agree, was for us to get caught up in a conceptual effort to consider what we /can and can't see/, and what happens when we encounter something familiar in an unexpected way. /It is what it is. Or is it?/ is a dialogue with the readymade form, seeing it not as a collection of static objects, but as a practice of displacement that turns thought into form and as physical evidence of conceptual exercise.

I still do not know exactly what to do about this incredibly beautiful image of a rainforest installed at the core of an art institution. It embodies all the difference in the world, separated from human agency and ideology, yet it also encapsulates the source of all that. It differs from the conventions of neutrality, and through its scale and its very nature it escapes from any formal canons. It compels a form of intelligence without consciousness to erupt into the white cube. 
*Enumérations:*
Taking place during Singapores inaugural international biennale of contemporary art, which also coincides with Singapores hosting of the Annual Meetings of the Boards of Governors of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank Group, these events provide a highly appropriate context for POWER STATIONs investigations. POWER STATIONs interventions into the citys political, financial and cultural centres of power invites the public to re-examine our understanding of identity in relation to authority, nation-hood and globalisation. Inviting reflexivity, it pertinently questions the authority of these power centres while highlighting their significance in framing a sense of belonging, pride and unity. meanings of the term power, Cagols engagement with the public underlines the complexity of power and authority. Neither definitive nor univocal, the concept of power is infinitely expanded. However, this multiplicity is subverted by the distribution of badges, once a symbol of rank but now playfully utilised as an accessory. The broadcasting of anthems of nations in power juxtaposed with those of the aspiring powers-to-be hints at the universal appeal for power, at once resisted yet irresistible. In this way the project highlights how power, as manifested through the visible centres of respected authority, inhabits every aspect of contemporary society and is silently rooted in every individual.

In 1999-2002 'Transmigrations', traveled to Los Angeles and Tijuana, afterwards it also traveled nationally. 'Transmigrations' represented a culturally diverse selection of South African artists whose work reflected a non-commercial approach. In a spirit of inclusivity we invited local artists of like-mind to exhibit with us. The exhibition was nominated for Tijuana's Cultura Premios award. One of my contributions was a kinetic piece called 'Bullet'. The viewer moves a lever to propel the 'bullet' into a 'torso' that opens on impact and falls forward. This symbolizes Western Civilization's impact on Africa.

its contents got uploaded to the internet. Because more museums are being built today than at any other time in human history. 
//The lineaments of a plummet-measured face./
*Jon Rich; The Blood of the Victim: Revolution in Syria and the Birth of the Image-Event* <http://e-flux.com/journal/view/241>

My work is an act of being in the world; a celebration of all and nothing.

*Primal Series Paintings* These are story paintings that address sexual taboos and uncomfortable subject matter. There are many precedents in other cultures where animals are combined with human forms. The Primal paintings also bring into consideration the nature of reality and individuality. Humans often anthropomorphize animals so we have creatures like 'Peter Rabbit'. My art goes in the opposite direction, looking for the animal in the human psyche. I am interested in how religion has influenced our culture and our ways of interacting with the environment. It causes a kind of blindness to reality.

/The characters framing the happenings in space are just as important as the event itself... sometimes the frame is even more crucial. Look closer for details and suggestions of time passing, finding freedom within

As soon as you start looking around, you see ruins everywhere.

*_Hito Steyerl—Proxy Politics_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/proxy-politics/> A face without a butt cannot sit. It has to take a stand. A butt without a face needs a stand-in for most kinds of communication. Proxy politics happens between taking a stand and using a stand-in. In the territory of displacement, stacking, subterfuge and montage thus created, both the worst and the best things could happen.

I knit from the inside out. Though I work quite deliberately, consciously employing both traditional and innovative techniques, my unconscious is the undisputed project manager.

of the Arts / Shedhalle / White Space.

I left Montreal at the age of seventeen to study painting at the Pratt Institute in New York City. From that year (1966) until 1972, I attended fine art schools in Boston, Maine and Montreal, and finally the New York Studio School of Drawing and Painting. Alex Katz, Philip Guston, and Sidney Tillim, all figurative painters, were among those who made the strongest impression on me during my final student years.

Clocks have forced us to view time as detached, regimented and a structured entity that has a reality separate from ourselves. The equal intervals and numbers on the face of the clock further this perception.

The actual taking of the photograph involved an interruption in the act of reading this book. As for the interruption itself, I do remember that it was the unexpected arrival of Paul Arbez, a friend who documents most of my wok on large-format transparencies. The production of this image then was an ‘enfolding' of this interruption into my passive act of reading and daydreaming so that my absent-mindedness was intersected with another kind of purposive activity: the positioning of the camera, taking light readings, and so on. The technical operation of photography thus functioned as a self-conscious witness to my private act of reading, as well as providing a concrete spatial reference for an abstract conceptual activity, a document of a specific, narrative autobiographical moment, an objec-tive preservation of an abstract instance of time. The photograph was then put into the archives until resurrected five years later.

*_Cathy Lee Crane—Letters to Harun_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/letters-to-harun/>
*Once again, to go beyond shallow assumptions of social media's invasion of traditional art practices, let me put the question differently: Where does abstraction and the non-representational intersect with the social? Or, put the other way around: /What is the limit of the social within the social itself/?**

Golden to the touch. I am well formed, And practically take care of myself.

On the cover, Gotovac superimposed a shot of himself holding open his trench coat—a glowing five-pointed star cut out of his forehead—over the letters T-O-M. His exposed penis dangles neatly below the Glen Miller T-shirt he is wearing. This Tom character—a cinephile punk—is joined by three other portraits inside the paper: Tom the security agency worker, Tom the pinup, and Tom the superhero. They all pay homage to the absurd adventures of a country facing its brutal fall, while still enjoying the last convulsions of socialism.

De Wit shows us a hilarious, slightly ominous and mostly politically incorrect world of shadows. *His assembled sculptures are created through an associative process and have enormous dynamism, as if they could jump right off their plinth.* What distinguishes this artist from the rest is his tempestuous imagination and conceptual power. Comically, provokingly and sometimes even poignantly, De Wit puts everything into perspective and leaves it open as far as possible, with regard to both form and content. between spiritual customs and modernization.

freedom, which isn't new but is currently being rekindled and, above all, revaluated.  
at Städelschule Academy Frankfurt Sculptural Department *How will future designers work, and how does Danish design address global issues such as sustainability, new technology and consumption? The exhibition it's a small world challenges the Danish design tradition and explores future design practices in a global perspective.*
The egg stood in front of us—all of us, people from the past as well as the future—and renamed and reinvented the world anew. Peralta Ramos changed the rules and altered the universe that day in Buenos Aires, which might explain why he abandoned painting and sculpture shortly after, instead staging many social gatherings and writing maxims on café napkins over long afternoons in Buenos Aires. He did not stop making art; rather, he started making it from the other side.Vanitas still life painters of the 16th and 17th century had a remarkable ability to capture the impermanence of life on canvas. They employed a host of iconic objects ranging from pensive skulls and snuffed candles to rotting food and fading flowers in order to compose vivid pictorial messages of remarkable complexity, eloquence, and beauty that speak of the brevity of life and profound futility of earthly existence.

Sculpture
Agnes Martin was born in Macklin, a town in Saskatchewan, Canada, in 1912. She grew up in Vancouver, then moved to Bellingham, Washington, in 1932. Martin gained a bachelor of science degree in 1942 and a master of arts degree in 1952 from Teachers College at Columbia University, while living intermittently in New Mexico. In 1957 she relocated to Coenties Slip in Lower Manhattan. She had her first one-person exhibition in 1958 at the Betty Parsons Gallery, New York. Surveys of her work have been presented at venues including the Institute of Contemporary Art at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia (1973), the Stedelijk Museum, Amsterdam (1991), and the Whitney Museum of American Art, New York (1992). She was awarded a Golden Lion at the Venice Biennial in 1997 and a National Endowment for the Arts National Medal of Arts in 1998, among other honors. From the late sixties until her death on December 16, 2004, Martin lived and worked in rural New Mexico.

Some of my subject matter is about people's daily routines and a comment on human nature. And since I've always been a fan of mafia films - a new strand of work seems to have emerged depicting a very 'human' and 'school playground' side to mob life.

Initially, we developed a staged fictional format in our images to protect people from being identified by management. However, we soon realized that it allows us to push both the content and form much further. More recently, however, we have also developed a process of visual workshops in which community members collaborate in developing the form of the work and act in the final images.

Evans seems to be using the more purely formalist geometry of his earlier paintings to create semi-recognizable signs that refer beyond the physicality of the canvas to the specific forms of nature, affirming in the process the tacit, formalist belief that visible phenomena are structured according to absolute, universal laws. Andrew Schulz, "Ric Evans at the Grunwald Gallery", C Magazine, (Winter 1987).

Close to caricature, the works of Dan Perjovschi draw directly on today's reality, while those of Donald Urquhart are inspired from underground and nocturn life. Constantin Luser opts for poetic dual-line projections with an industrial touch to them. Other artists play with the architecture of the venue, among them Robin Rhode who involves the public in drawn performances. Petra Mrzyk and Jean-FranCois Moriceau simulate, on the wall, a gallery of grimacing portraits. Collaborative work is another current trend, as in the spontaneously explosive fresco of Maroussia Rebecq and her guests. A luminous counterpoint is provided by the delicate dreamlike drawings by Vidya Gastaldon. Santiago Cucullu offers a coloured and ‘mythological' panorama and Sammy Stein, after creating his exuberant creatures, transfers them onto stickers that can infiltrate any place.

The work thus far has used the frame of the museum to propose a secret history of modernity, and in the process, point to stereotypes of difference, which are hidden in plain sight. I have found the histories of surrealism and minimalism to be useful in the rearranging of received ideas. The objects I make are placed in the canon of modernist art, in hopes of making visible what is overlooked in the historicizing of the artist. This project has always been grounded in pleasure and aesthetics.

Through intuitive and process-led image making, I create dialogues with material, sites and residual memories. This interrogation regularly starts from abstract photographs I make in situ capturing my interest in specific man-made structures, buildings and physical spaces.

[Taryn Simon provides expansive descriptions as part of many of her works.--eds.]

If it took hours to do the sketch and months for it to sit around until used, then weeks to finish the piece, I would like the work to reflect, in some way, the passing of time, maybe implying that the plants depicted are still in the act of growing: The scene being an average representation rather than a snapshot frozen in time.

Wangechi Mutu has transformed the *Deutsche Guggenheim* into a fascinating environment that involves all senses. The show's curator Friedhelm Hütte, Global Head of Art, Deutsche Bank, introduces her work.

This series was an attempt to reconcile all that. The seriality of Monet's project connected to the seriality of Yves Klein's. Yves Klein's performative figure seemed to connect to Gilles, the consumptive clown/artist. Both died young. Although known for his blue paintings, Yves Klein dealt with all the primaries. His paintings were a reiteration of Rodchenko's red yellow and blue monochromes, which in 1921 declared the death of painting. The first time this sentiment may have been uttered was in 1839, when the French painter Paul Delaroche was asked to prepare a committee report on the invention of the Daguerreotype to the French government.

To be more precise, it is forcing such a high level of abstraction that productive and reproductive forces become indistinguishable from each other. In a response in this issue to the "Manifesto for Accelerationist Politics," Antonio Negri identifies this particular level of abstraction as the place that must be occupied. Cognitive labor is already abstract, and it is under the auspices of this abstraction that its output is left by the roadside to be swept up by capital and taken elsewhere. Strangely, we are faced with a scenario in which not only the Left, but also capitalism suffers from retrograde approaches to technology. And yet, as the relation of the human to technology is being rewritten seemingly on its own, the urgent task becomes one of locating the places where the most crucial abstract and immaterial effects register themselves in life. It is a question of form.

NEO-MODERNISM* Modernism's not over yet, but continues to inspire a younger generation of artists. And they revere *Imi Knoebel*—whose exhibition /ICH NICHT / ENDUROS/ is currently on view at the *Deutsche Guggenheim*. db artmag on the return to the avant-garde of the past.

I didn't set out to be an environmental artist or to create artwork relating to social commentary but as my portfolio developed and people started to review my work, the descriptions started to emerge and I began to notice a pattern I hadn't intended but am now please with.

Les toiles de grand format deviennent des lieux de réflexion où le spectateur, ne se sentant pas menacé, est contraint de constater l'évolution de la nature. Fondamentalement, il m'importe que les supports et les techniques choisis favorisent la compréhension de mon travail, tant sur le plan formel que sur celui du contenu. À cela s'ajoute un intérêt pour le texte comme ponctuation ou ajout à mon écriture visuelle.

This work is visually analogous to 'sampling' techniques now used in recording music where existing parts and pieces of music recordings or other recordings are taken, altered and combined with original material to form a new whole. In many ways, Stewart's work functions as a kind of visual sampling. Features of Stewart's work recall aspects of a number of issues currently of critical interest. The use of text has been a prominent and constant feature of this work. Issues of appropriation are raised in the use of photographic and documentary resources.

Faced with the thousands of artistic events presented by Sigma, the CAPC choses to privilege the most experimental practices, the ones that redefined the outlines of their respective disciplines, even if this meant inventing new ones. Experiments which use time and space as materials therefore shatter the frozen frames of categories—theatre leaves area of the stage, bodies loosen, exhibitions become works of art, and art itself requires the public's participation. Randomness and improvisation are the new mottos which enable music, cinema, literature and the other disciplines mentioned above to move into unknown aesthetic regions.Polke doesn't really require any introduction. His dot matrices are his landmark trait, but as a whole his work incorporates infintely more. The artist restlessly experiments with motifs, picture surfaces and materials. This fact is amply on display in his current exhibition in the Musem of Contemporary Art Siegen which features works that introduce a new element, the method of lenticular printing. The works' surfaces are transparent and undulated, causing the infalling light to break. This effect animates the viewer to stay in motion so as to be able to see different images according to the angle from which a picture is viewed. Polke is presenting over 80 works in the Siegen exhibition, 30 of which are new works utilizing the lenticular method and are to be seen for the first time ever.fits into his philosophy, which accords more power to the representation than to what is represented. And yet another technology has proved handy here: Xeroxing. The original can be quickly whisked through, the exposure interrupted or deliberately spoilt. Which results in heads with elongated necks, sloping mountains and wild shadows – a cabinet of deformed curiosities. Scarcely another artist has shown such zest in experimenting with printing, and scarcely another has proved to be as funny as Sigmar Polke.

While in *TEMPTATIONS*, curated by Edi Muka and Gezim Qendro (Albania), artists including Olafur Eliasson, Phil Collins and Pal Hollender analyzed how taboos correlate with the idea of power and the temptation to violate its confines, in the second episode, TO LOSE WITHOUT BEING A LOSER, Roberto Pinto (Italy), invited artists such as Tania Bruguera, Jota Castro, Maja Bajevic and Stefano Romano, to use their work to reflect on the concept of defeat, not as incapacity to win, but rather as alternative view of the world. DEMOCRACIES, title of the third episode, curated by Zdenka Badovinac (Slovenia), focused on parallel economies, exploring the different new possibilities in the concept of democracy, through artworks and new operations, such as permission to screen the film /THE TAKE/, a documentary on the effects of globalization and their implications, which the artist Apolonia Sustersic invited unemployed workers in Albania to attend free.

The artwork I have made is primarily and inextricably socially concerned.

Greg Staats' video /Wave/ presents the object of loss as an aural experience. Staats trains his camera at the frosted glass of his front door, videotaping shadows cast by tree branches outside his house. The result is a number of eerie forms that move like grey ghosts across the screen. An otherworldly soundtrack consisting of a funeral song performed in Mohawk by Staats' grandfather, grandmother and uncles (all of whom had passed away long before the video was made) accompanies the image. The recording, made by Staats' grandfather in the 1950s, was discovered by the artist posthumously. The harmonies are dissonant and lyrical at the same time. By combining the shadowy images with this song of faith and mourning, Staats alludes to the loss and remembrance of a simpler time, a way of life that will never return.

The primary theme of this work is lesbian public sex – as metaphor and practice. The work contests assumptions around the use of public space and lesbian sexual practice. In this series of photographs I claim dark corners of the city, and populate them with a lesbian (sexual) presence. A lesbian ‘flaneur' couple wanders the sensual Montreal night.

*The meaning was equally clear or unclear regardless of whether it was a conscious work or not. I no longer saw the difference in principle between the egg cup arrangement, the cauliflower, and the remote control.

/*The Individual*/ It is the nature of perception that we project what we see rather than just receive information. We visualize and assign properties to objects and situations according to predetermined cultural decisions. For instance, we emphasize the individual in Western Culture, imagining a body separate from surroundings. Quantum Mechanics denies separation. San people experience the spirit world as a manifestation of their reality and do not emphasize individualism. To them the supernatural is real.

"Why would you want to do art about our experience. We're not important."

Death leaves its mark everywhere around the world. Rich people and poor people, criminals and outstanding citizens, celebrities and "nobodies" are equally affected by it. It is ruthless and final.

*For the majority of young girls and boys, this is their first encounter with an art space. They are totally lost. They have no idea what to expect. They are trembling. How this initiation happens is extremely important, so we really try to work hard on it. Courage is important, having the courage to tremble.

Although Rembrandt was one of the first artists to add tone by directly applying ink to some of his etching plates, it was Degas, at the end of the nineteenth century, who produced the first body of work in this medium. Since Degas, many artists* have made this method part of their working repertoire; but it is not until recently that the medium has been accorded the critical respect that it deserves.

Ziółkowski's vision parallels a collision between the fantasy planet of Hieronymus Bosch and the grotesque cartoonish world of Philip Guston, viewed through the lens of the artist's extraordinary imagination. Influenced by the folk tales and the often dark history of his native country, and by contemporary culture, Ziółkowski's references are wide-reaching: from the Ancient Greeks to André Masson to Frank Zappa. Ziółkowski's measured and often delicate command of his medium belies his sinister subject matter. His paintings resonate with an unnerving atmosphere, which speaks profoundly of the darker side of human nature.

But what does death mean to us as a culture, and how do we deal with it? Growing up in El Salvador during the civil war in the late 70s, I was surrounded by death. There were corpses on the street on a daily basis. People that I knew intimately would be "disappeared," killed or forced to leave the country in fear for their lives. However, though its spectre hung in the air like a bad stench, I did not fully realize what death was all about until one night, during the wake for a friend's dead brother. Looking at the corpse in the open casket, I felt compelled to touch it, to connect with this person. I reached out and touched the corpse's arm. The body, cold and stiff like a slab of meat, was no longer animated. It was an object, an empty shell.

Joseph Dadoune, through a "laborious" and long-lasting creative process of the treatment of film (change of color from colored to black and white, chronological shift of actions, interruption of linear narration, expulsion of concrete elements of natural architectural space, and utilization of special effects), presents the analytic conceptual dimension of created cinematographic reality (the film is based on the interjection of the three basic colors white, black, and red): the liberating nature of the natural and intellectual light against the terror of repetitive confinement that intervenes redemptively in a space-time without beginning or end (the viewer may watch the film without a time sequence). A ruin is defined as the disjunctive product of the intrusion of nature into an edifice without loss of the unity produced by the human builders. Time, proposed as the principal cause of ruin, serves also to unify the ruin. In a ruin the edifice, the man-made part, and nature are one and inseparable; an edifice separated from its natural setting is no longer part of a ruin since it has lost its time, space and place. A ruin has a signification different from something merely man-made. It is like no other work of art, and its time is unlike any other time.

Given the present social divisions of labour, our work attempts to bridge two audiences. Working people and those in the arts. We feel that it is not only important to articulate the concerns and experience of working and community life, but that it should also be able to stand up to the sophistication of corporate culture and take into account the complexities of cultural representation.

Marman and Borins graduated from the Ontario College of Art and Design in 2001. Prior to that, Marman received a BA in Philosophy from the University of Western Ontario and Borins received a BA in Art History from McGill University.

performance

Fraser says the key word to this show is "gorgeous," an ongoing interest of hers. In the last year she has been in the Venice Biennale; the formal voice of these circumlocutions, though, a sense of outrage simmers, ready to boil over.

The Brazilian artist Hélio Oiticica is best known for his coloured boxes, architectural constructions and the wearable caps inspired by his time in Rio's Mangueira /favela/. Tate Modern's exhibition provides an opportunity to explore this mercurial artist during the crucial years when he transformed himself from the precocious Neo-Constructivist acolyte of the 1950s into the revolutionary barrier-smasher of the 1960s.You realise how water never loses its identity, it is always discretely itself. Water is transparence derived from the presence of everything. Roni Horn ruminates on how water is central to her work in conversation with *Bice Curiger*. New York– *Scope* hunts down that most endangered of species: the emerging artist. Both moving target and elusive chameleon, *Scope*s 80 participants capture this exotic breed in their roving crosshairs. Challenging passive viewing with 30,000 square feet of open-range, *Scope* New York exposes visitors to a real-time survey of the contemporary art world available nowhere else. performance and exhibitions, an experimental music series, an online radio station and distribution label, and education initiative, and an artist residency program and study center. Under the stewardship of David Hunt and Franklin Sirmans, a consortium of independent curators will pass the curatorial baton, only to square off moments later in a bare-knuckle showdown. The anchorman becomes the lead-off man becomes the man who knew too much. Rolodexes are purged as relationship-arbitrage witnesses heavy trading. Including:
How does official history relate to personal history? How many individual complications do the rules of political historiography allow? Grubanov describes his working method as mapping myself into complex historical situations. He usually choses a subjective, documentary approach; there is always a certain ambivalence with regard to the subject. He avoids superficial points of view, opinions or unambiguous emblematic images. At the same time the artist also questions himself: how far can identification and self-reflection go? Ivan Grubanov (Belgrade, 1976) belongs to the generation of young Serbian artists who grew up in a strictly confined society. They rebelled against the regime of Milosevic and demanded freedom of expression, open communication with the world around them, and room for new experiments in the visual arts. In these circumstances Grubanov became aware of his role in society and of his responsibilities, feeling national-state representation, one might instigate a discourse on the meaning of the term "nation" in post-global age, when the national state retreats before the trans-national and supra-national forms of organizing—conglomerates, political, military and economic alliances which represent huge concentrations of power and influence. 
Of all the structures of contemporary art, the least recognized and documented is the space of the art school studio, where much of contemporary art has its origins. The chaos in the studio reflects a desire for unstructured play that seems to operate as the flipside to what is seen as the regimentation of a non-artistic life. Yet it is only by structuring their "play" to suit the regimentations of the biennale, the gallery system and granting structures that students can hope to make their way. Student detritus reveals how quickly they absorb the zeitgeist of current art production.

This event is the 27th installment of "Hitting Walls/,"/ an iterative project started by Wing in 2008 that consists of works made in a variety of media and forms—large-format photographs, appropriated internet material, experimental videos, sound sculptures, installations, performances, participatory events, and written texts. All of the works engage ball-wall sports, tracing new arcs through their long, globalized histories and advocating embodied, material ways of describing the world through bounce, rebound, and ricochet.

Further mocking the structure of a private corporation, Cuevas rented an office on the 14th floor of the tallest skyscraper in Mexico City. From this local 1950s modernist icon, Cuevas designed a website that is part of the "irational.org" group, which also has contributors in England and Spain, (33) and set out to establish a whole range of products and services to be given away for free on request and with no obligation to reciprocate. MVC's catalogue is a small compilation of contemporary dreams and antidotes to frustration. Cuevas leaves random "magic" seeds (very much in the tradition of Ben Vautier's unlabelled cans of "mystery food") next to ATMs, suggesting to the customer an agrarian turn to make of the former social structure of political clientelism and the untenable dreams of world-class development. Despite its mocking of corporate culture, and the radical and anarchist leanings of its creator, one can credit MVC with having replicated the unconscious structure of this fake version of the welfare state. Cuevas's work, in that sense, is a timely counter monument for a cunning postrevolutionary populist regime that seems on the way to vanishing entirely, eroded by the democratic struggles of its population and the unstoppable advance of global capitalism. Short-termism reigns. Today's decisions lack a future horizon. A constant flood of snapshots feeds the fear of missing out. A never-ending flood of new technologies promises to solve all our problems—until the next revelation of the impossibility of tackling deep-seated conflicts through technological management. 
But even when I was fifteen I was somewhat outside my contemporaries because of an interest in jazz: Louis Armstrong, the Hot Five, Django Rhinehart. Bush was also a great jazz fan. Elvis wasn't around then, but I liked that kind of music too. Rock and roll existed in its roots under the name of R and B. I started to listen to the classics and broadened my scope with music as I was broadening my scope with experiencing the world of art.

The management of public affect through authorized circulation has broken down all over the postcolonial world, if not elsewhere, disrupting older transactions between sovereign power and a population seen as susceptible to sensorial powers. Media has become the infrastructural condition of /living/, rather than existing as distinct, regulated sites like the cinema theater, or as celluloid. The always emergent potential (or "becoming virtual") of mediation is now a generalized condition of affect-driven postcolonial media modernity in India, if not most parts of the world today.

*It's a small world* focuses on Danish design, craft and architecture in relation to a new international design agenda and examines the role of design as problem-solver in a world filled with surplus production and an endless supply of products. Global challenges such as sustainability and, not least, the growing demand for individual, non-standardised solutions, make both specialisation and flexibility key concerns at every stage of the design process. The interaction between individual preferences and global needs is the background for the debate.

*João Onofre* has created a simple and universal image: a tiny island that slowly floats along and gets lost on the horizon; a drifting refuge for those who disagree with the turn the world has taken.

Fundamental to this artist's contentious strategies are these sorts of slippages of meanings, shifts from the conventions of semantics to those of identity and back again, with all their attendant contradiction and paradox. Similarly crucial are the physical displacements of certain marks of identity into contexts or supports where they acquire one or more new meanings or reveal unexpected characteristics that clash with their original meaning (and where they suggest the Surrealist ‘found object' in all its riveting subversion). On the basis of Conceptual art, Echakhch makes use of any language and technique available: installation, video, sculptural objects, simple materials from everyday life and happenings. At the core of the works on display is a shared effort to provoke the present by confronting the past. The work of the late Russian architect Yakov Chernikov is a bold statement of resistance to the Stalinist /The Snow Show 2006/, the third to be curated by Lance Fung, will be presented prior to the opening of the XX Winter Olympic Games in Turin in February 2006. The event will bring together six new collaborative examples of snow-built cutting-edge contemporary art and architecture. The teamed participants include Kiki Smith and Lebbeus Woods, Yoko Ono and Arata Isozaki, Carsten Höller and Williams & Tsien, Daniel Buren and Patrick Bouchain, Paola Pivi and Cliostraat, Jaume Plensa and Norman Foster.

Winter landscapes, pristine deserts of ice, crystals: in keeping with the chilly season, db artmag's current issue investigates art below freezing – works that address the theme of coldness either in a concrete way or on a symbolic, social, or metaphorical level. *True North*: Isaac Julien is considered to be one of the most important video artists of the present day; his works have often been the subject of controversial debate. His latest video installation addresses the sublime in landscape and juxtaposes the apparently immaculate Arctic

Function Drawing is an organic scan of the underworld. Drawing is the first place amorphous inklings congeal into objective form. Drawing mediates between the invisible interior world and the mechanistic physical perception of itself. Between Knowing and Seeing.

To characterize the dilemma, we borrow a phrase from the title of an essay by Norbert Elias: /Involvement and Detachment/. These are not polar opposites; rather, they are integral elements in all human social and communicative action, always interconnected, on both the communal and the personal level. The richness of this tension is indicated by the existence of a whole range of near-synonyms for both terms: engagement, participation vs. exclusion and critical distance, for instance. On the other hand, there is no universal recipe for the way that interconnectedness is to be enacted.

After a number of years I recall Beckett's Watt, regarding from a gate the distant figure of a man or a woman (or could it be a priest or a nun?) which appeared to be advancing by slow degrees from the horizon, only surprisingly "without any interruption of its motions" to disappear over it instead. Here going is confounded--if not identified--with coming, backwards with forwards. The film returns the diver to the divingboard. The procession of present moments is reversed, stilled.

The works are Abstractions wherein areas are composed of coloured lines with an expressive use of colour and form.

I have always been fascinated by the concept of time. What it might be, how it is perceived, how it is represented and what it symbolizes.

The major theme in my work is the human condition -- our relationship to the environment -- our relationship to each other.

In an era when Japan's underground was reaching a fever pitch, Terayama was a crucial player in a complex network of creative expression, encompassing such countercultural legends as singer Akihiro Miwa, photographer Daido Moriyama and graphic artist Tadanori Yokoo. A tribute to this ‘many-headed' artist, this survey centres both on his astonishing film and video work and his trailblazing shifts through varied media and performance. The series includes a symposium on Terayama's transmedia work and a live cinema performance in the Turbine Hall. Terayama always made work that was interrelated, often producing visionary and unexpected outcomes in whatever his chosen form.

My works examine the body in relation to history, cultural production, nature, and identity through the nexus of the fragment. Redrawn and altered material quoted from diverse historical sources is incorporated into my printed images/objects to form new composites in an exploration of both the ephemerality of the body and our desire to leave a mark: to create, organize, and understand. The work posits the body as artifact and archive, and as a region of the imagination-a territory of uncertainty.

Front. Those authorities attentive to the evidence of this metabolic rift usually imagine four ways of mitigating its effects. One is that the market will take care of everything. Another proposes that all we need is new technology. A third imagines a social change in which we all become individually accountable for quantifying and limiting our own carbon "footprint." A fourth is a romantic turn away from the modern, from technology, as if the rift is made whole when a privileged few shop at the farmer's market for artisanal cheese. None of these four solutions seems quite the thing. 
In my painting I seek to continue an itinerary from a European formation, from a semiotic view point to a poetic abstraction. When describing my process of painting I like to bring forth, to draw an analogy by pointing onto the space found between the words of a typeset page, of a text.

Knitting is my key to the secret garden, my way down the rabbit hole, my looking glass.

I paint nature, not as an exact imitation of its external appearances, but through it's inherent somber and tranquil qualities. I use these attributes of nature to create a contemplative mood that invites thought and reflection.

Summers are spent in Newfoundland collecting specimens. Like the naturalist, I comb the beaches and dig in the soil. Both places reveal bones, rocks, and detritus. The ‘artifacts' I find, mostly rusty old tools, were used to harness horses, toil fields, and catch fish. I gather these objects and record their stories, accumulating an inventory of work and life. In Newfoundland, the small town museum is characteristic of remote outport villages intent on preserving their past. The locals rummage through their attics and ‘stores' dusting off long-forgotten treasures for display in the museum. Glass cases are absent; items are displayed openly on walls and tables. There is little to read but lots to see, visual information superseding the written word. The small town museum provides a model for my own museological presentations. Drawings, paintings, and specimens are grouped together in loosely defined categories. Specimens and their representations sit in rows on tables and shelves, or pinned to the walls like bugs. It is a museum without labels, a book without words. January 2003

Social Conscience paintings strive to articulate a message about use/abuse of the environment, animals and humans. I believe that animals have sentience and that our environment exists by virtue of symbiotic relationships. I see these works as art engaging with important social issues of our time, outside the normal aesthetic discourse and perhaps having more in common with Social Practice maneuvers. My content has synchronicities with animal rights groups. I believe that allure is important in any effort to communicate or allow for comprehension of our effect on the environment due to ingrained habits like the use of oil, fur and general consumption.

its hosts. But now there are so many petitions, so many threats to withdraw, that it becomes clear that the conditions for producing and exhibiting art have become ethically unbearable for too many artists—and this comes at the same time that the economic and political utility of contemporary art is becoming clear to global players discovering how supporting vanguard cultural production can humanize their own image. Where industrialists before put their surplus into culture*—*often to curry favor with the municipality—now municipalities, industrialists, and feudal lords alike use culture as advertising. And the staggering number of boycotts can be understood as the artistic response to these particular advances in the industrialization of the art world, and of art.

Levy's work has also been interpreted as the "symbolic representation of an ideal condition, perhaps even of perfection. In response to this reference made by Toronto Star art critic, Christopher Hume, Levy suggests that, "since the original image, or the inspiration of some natural form was in a sense perfect, the actual sculpture can only be a symbol of this original form."
In the studio the painting is an ambiguous poetic terrain – a field of endless possibilities. During painting earlier passions and preoccupations surface and recede, leading to new insights into the language of painting. Painting is an act of contemplation or meditation; images, like words, invite us to think silently.

"I am breathing life into these images - I am giving back memories of time and place the aura and mystery that has been lost in the memory," says the artist. She continues to describe how her desire to paint her photographs "is actually a desire to authenticate or make unique a world that is fragmented and overexposed in the photographic image." Her manipulation of the original images from Sarah's archive of photographs allow her to reinterpret and distance herself from the personal, and "open the work to the viewer for a unique authoring of the trace with which individual identity is defined."
In these new paintings I borrow shapes from my environment and displace them. The shapes in turn have a presence all their own. More of a physical than an imaginary reference.

Re-visiting History: "To write of depicting or representing history is to imply that history is some kind of object with identifiable boundaries that distinguish it from other objects..." (Jean Fisher) How is history used? Re-used? What is our relationship to history? How do we remember things? Why do we remember them? Is using history as an ‘object' a way in which we define ourselves in the world today, with all the dramatic changes (earthquakes, tsunamis and civil uprisings)? Why do we go back in history to remember when and why these happened before?

*Certain statements do not have practical traction in the world. Why don't we think that removing social welfare is a form of state killing? Especially when the neoliberal state says that its way of "caring" will make life unviable for many. "Life is going to get much worse," we are told, "but just wait and then things will get better." Why do we think of this as care and not as state abuse? How long are we willing to give late-liberal forms of care-as-enervation before we are willing to call them a form of killing?
_*Elizabeth A. Povinelli—**Holding Up the World, Part II: Time/Bank, Effort/Embankments*_ <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/holding-up-the-world-part-ii-timebank-effortembankments/> In other words, those for whom no effort has been invested are then held accountable for not having the conditions for making the right kind of effort—the kind of effort that would eventuate a kind of event: the new, amazing, world-transformative concept-activity. How do we think about various explicitly aestheticized forms and genres of concept-activity that at once analyze and make worlds in which these efforts of attentive endurance are formed, thickened, and extended? And where and with whom?

Now I do two kinds of painting. The first is a kind of citified, urban painting, more cerebral, less influenced by my actual surroundings. In other words, I'm neither painting nor influenced directly by the back alleys of Spadina Avenue. But when I'm up north my palette changes automatically and the method by which I paint changes, the aspects of touch and colour are more affected by the environment. I began to paint the peculiar light that exists only in northern Ontario. Part of the lure of the north is its strange Pre-Cambrian light and the reflection off the thousands of lakes that exist there and the jungle-like growth. The sky is, even in the hilly country up there and with the density of the bush, overwhelming. I'm sure these features were major attractions for the Group of Seven. As for those members that went to the Rockies, Fred Varley and Arthur Lismer, their paintings changed considerably when they were in a different environment.

Touch me, And I'll - die.

I designed an apparatus that would serve to literally physically demolish war-torn buildings located on what used to be the battlefields of Beirut. The demolition apparatus would also serve as a memory collector, an inhabitable capsule in which memory is deposited as quantified data. The more memory you collect, the more matter you demolish. The ashes of the building would be collected and stored in a newly-constructed transparent peripheral membrane. The process ends with the complete demolition of the ruin and the physical saturation of the transparent peripheral membrane and the memory collector.

Metaphor for here today, gone tomorrow

Against establishing cohesive thematic groupings of artworks, /It is what it is. Or is it?/ is a speculative proposition that considers how artists are using and making readymades today and how we can learn something from them about a contemporary state of being. The readymade, and its multiple legacies, demand that we be active viewers. /It is what it is. Or is it?/ culls together different, even unexpected, approaches to the readymade to insist upon its relevance as a method, practice, and approach for artists today. The exhibition is organized by Dean Daderko, Curator, Contemporary Arts Museum Houston.

My works play an important role as mediator in the geo-political landscape, where I seek to place it within the context of place/site and the intersection of high culture and daily life. In the featured works, materiality, form, and concept come together in an expression of each artist's personal values and experience of the world. These range from place-specific issues of social justice and political oppression to the universal concerns of love and family.

Selon les Nations-Unies, la dégradation de l'environnment menace de rendre stérile près du quart des continents. J'ai donc abordé ma plus récente série en ayant pour objectif de mettre en lumière la négligence, l'insouciance, le manque de clairvoyance de certains dirigeants, mais aussi les blessures causées par le déboisement abusif, la culture intensive, le surpâturage, voire l'extrême nécessité de populations pauvres, pour ne nommer que ces quelques abus sur la nature. La désertification étant tout la perte de terre arabe.

Of course, in the field of art as we know it, easy solutions for this tension have never been an issue. On the contrary, the field has always been subsidized by public funding, wealthy patrons, and personal assets precisely on the basis that art surpasses clear and straightforward valuation in economic terms. On the one hand this has made for a strange hybrid economy where a humanist tradition also has its own commodity market, while on the other it has managed to remain a sphere in which a lack of faith in any terms for clear economic validation has somehow managed to remain intact. Even officially in many cases, public and private funding alike would flow to art precisely because art was understood to provide an exception to the geopolitical rule.

The spaghetti is not just theoretical but a literal component in the work.

In the United States, all living white tigers are the result of selective inbreeding to artificially create the genetic conditions that lead to white fur, ice-blue eyes and a pink nose. Kenny was born to a breeder in Bentonville, Arkansas on February 3, 1999. As a result of inbreeding, Kenny is mentally retarded and has significant physical limitations. Due to his deep-set nose, he has difficulty breathing and closing his jaw, his teeth are severely malformed and he limps from abnormal bone structure in his forearms. The three other tigers in Kenny's litter are not considered to be quality white tigers as they are yellow-coated, cross-eyed, and knock-kneed.

multimedia

A ruin is always over, in spite of the fact that it necessarily holds fragments of history. Moreover, a ruin is not in front of us. Decay evolves next to us, not to say with us. That's the reason why we can say that at the beginning, there is the ruin.

    Interview with Ric Evans by Robert Bowers, "Ric Evans, Mercer Union,     Nov 23­Dec 11, 1983", Vanguard (Spring, 1984).

My recent work employs different photographic forms (from the vernacular to high art) and borrows these forms to serve (unexpected) lesbian content. Using familiar forms I disrupt the comforting beauty of the surface to speak of issues that expand and contradict expectations.

Dans son travail, Stewart utilise le matériel textuel de façons variées. Il compose lui-même et met en forme certains des textes. D'autres émanent de combinaisons de diverses sources existantes et sont ensuite mis en forme. Le plus souvent, les textes qu'il s'approprie sont édités ou redisposés ; leur sens propre et leur signification graphique sont transformés pour correspondre à leur nouveau contexte. Certains textes sont parfois tirés directement de sources imprimées (ou reproduits avec la police source), comme le sont les graphiques et les diagrammes scientifiques ou techniques qui figurent également dans ces œuvres. Des pages entières peuvent parfois être extraites et utilisées sans altération.

Beyond their permanence, platinum prints also have a unique appearance. They are amazingly luminous, and even appear to be three-dimensional. This results from the enormous tonal scale composing the platinum image. A silver photograph can never have more than ten or twelve separated grey tones: the values of the negative are compressed and amputated when printed on silver paper. With up to 500% more scale, the platinum print has by far the most expanded tonal range of any image, in any medium, in the world.

And is not Yeats's circular lunar system of re-incarnation--the winding stair of Thoor Ballylee, climbed and descended repeatedly--itself a cosmic arrangement of this fluid succession of presents, of time-consciousness in this profoundly Celtic sense? Is this indeed the underlying ambivalence which we in Ireland tend to stress; the continual presence of the historic past, the indivisibility of birth and funeral, spanning the apparent chasm between past and present, between consciousness and fact?

public. Valverde's work explores a sculptural particularity which affects architecture and its audiences, as well as the performativity and/or hermeneutics of both. The piece may in fact be an act of defiance against the lack of vision and lack of consideration with regard to spatial events and cultural goods in these volatile times of a crisis of values.

When I arrived in Canada in the early 80s, the war in El Salvador was all over the news, and I became aware of another aspect of death, one that was sinister and scary. For even though death was in El Salvador for everyone to see, the Salvadoran media would never report on it. It merely carried on with its mundane procession of American sitcoms, cartoons, spaghetti westerns and commercials for toothpaste and laundry soap. To me, the images of war and carnage that I saw in the Canadian media were shocking. Strangely, the people around me were unaffected by it. Death had become yet another image to be processed along with millions of other images in advertisements, television shows and print media. This dichotomy fascinated me: the cold lifelessness of a corpse versus the culturally codified, abstract concept of death as seen in the media and popular culture.

Mes objets de création peuvent être considérés comme fossiles. C'est en peignant que le processus-même de création devient mon passage vers mes souvenances les plus profondes. Recouvrir la surface lisse d'une toile de confettis peints me semble tout à fait logique pour le genre de témoignage que je fais. Chaque tache de peinture confirme ma présence dans le temps. J'estime que la couleur est subjective et qu'elle peut être appliquée au hasard. J'enterre mes images des couches de peinture. Mes tableaux référent à la qualité granuleuse d'images médiatisées. L'interface numérique et le réseau ont influencé ma perception. Je considère mes images sans limites, ni bords, ni pourtour.

Ernestine Tahedl was born and educated in Austria and received a Master's Degree in graphite art from the Vienna Academy of Applied Arts. Following graduation in 1961, she collaborated with her father, Professor Heinrich Tahedl, in the design and execution of stained glass commissions until she immigrated to Canada in 1963. Her studio is in King City, Ontario. Her work is represented in public, corporate and private collections and galleries in Canada, the United States, France, Switzerland, Austria, and Japan. Her awards include the Graduation Prize of the Austrian Government, 1961; the Bronze Medal of the Vienna International Exhibition of Paintings, 1963; The Allied Arts Medal of the Royal Architectural Institute of Canada; 1966; and a purchase award, Concourse Artistique du Quebec, 1966. In 1967, she received a Canada Council Arts Award. She was elected a member of the Royal Canadian Academy of Arts in 1977 and the Ontario Society of Artists in 1984 and is a member of the Executive of the Arts foundation of Greater Toronto. She received the Governor General's Canada 125th Anniversary Medal in 1993.

As a visual and performance artist, it is always my intention to approach sound by constantly pushing it to a different level of physicality, and despite my complex relationship with Deaf culture, I

My work centres on the body in large prints and drawings made on supports of paper, slate and cloth. The body fragments often stands alone as a signifier or is used in conjunction with fully represented bodies. I use the fragment to regain a sense of potency for the body image; to disassociate from a viewing of its as figure; to relate to it as subject. I am also interested in the ability of the fragment to both stand in for the whole and to trigger association in the viewer with meanings suggested by the symbolism of specific parts. The body parts function as glyphs (to be viewed either singly or in relation to each other) which are decoded in part through a sort of bodily understanding or cellular memory.

I would go home early from a hot date for the voluptuous pleasure of thinking these things.

Ces pièces sont autonomes, pourtant, d'une certaine façon, elles reforment un tout, fait d'îlots. Elles sont ordonnées d'une manière rigoureuse et précise, et malgré tout semblent relever d'un certain chaos. Elles paraissent sobres et connues, mais paradoxalement elles ne se laissent pas classifier aisément et renvoient à des images autres que celle de leur réalité première. Au lieu d'un travail de sculpture et de peinture, ce serait peut-être un travail de collage, où peinture et sculpture retournent à une réalité générique et deviennent un matériau de base.

Myths and stories about weavers have long been the focus of my work. Myths give shape to the past and inform our present and future. My involvement with mythic weavers, started with Penelope and Arachne, who were able to shape history through their weaving, as a powerful recorded language for women. My ideas about myths are about rationalizing the way symbols exhort power in a given society, so they flow fluidly from Greek myths to Fairy Tales, Science fiction and cyborgs.

The work suggests a vivarium of surprising size that interweaves a multitude of threads introducing the idea of movement and perpetual metamorphosis. successful one. UBS has a strong tradition of sponsorship in which both the sponsor and the project owner act as partners to develop common ideas and grow together. UBS wants to combine the financial with a cultural commitment and to take on longterm responsibility in projects that are meaningful to the society. Sharing strong sustainable values such as teamwork, high standards of quality, dedication and innovation, Art Basel Miami Beach is pleased to have UBS as main sponsor for the new international art show. The examination of political, social, economic and personal realities is picked out as a central theme in the sociologically oriented work of several young artists. While video art, installations, multimedia works and process art are in the foreground, various currents in postmodern painting, as they appear at the beginning of the new millennium, are also on display in Miami Beach.

The Artist represents a weeping young lady ideally hugging the picture of whom she meant to be: a modern and strong woman challenging the world Reproducing her alter ego, the Artist describes the current impossibility to follow her dreams and ambitions because of sudden events occurred in her life.

In the year of my birth Jackson Pollock created his first 'drip' paintings; Bell Lab Scientists invented the transistor; a UFO dropped out of the sky over Roswell, New Mexico; Henry Ford died; Chuck Yaeger broke the sound barrier at Mach One; and Tupperware was introduced to the North American household. Later, I studied and graduated from university with Donna Reed, Bill Bailey, Nancy Davis, Margaret Mitchell and Henry Miller.

Airbnb can be part of a new integrated meta-architecture that involves the pooling and marketing of space in a way where, in a broad sense, architectural interventions on the level of building tend to serve as decorative afterthoughts to the capture and recording of not only space, but also of practices, representations, expressions, knowledge, and skills. This is the aim of UNESCO's initiative over the past decade to update the concept of cultural heritage to include immaterial and intangible cultural products. UNESCO's Intangible cultural heritage (ICH) becomes a device for making another layer of global culture visible and searchable across long distances, and an amplifying mechanism for heritage that can allow it to be converted from culture into a knowledge database, and back into culture again. Is this something we can compare to what Lebanese architect Bernard Khoury imagined as a building that would record memories of a place as data, but also demolish its physical matter with each kilobyte or megabyte it records?
The artist Mary Walling Blackburn has pointed out that it becomes very interesting to think about overpopulation in this scenario. She was actually pregnant at the time. Overpopulation implies a capacity that has reached its limit, a bloat that is taxing resources. But what is it that is being overpopulated, and how is the capacity reached? Let's try to look at it differently—by way of the family. The family is the place where public and private mash together. It is the interface of both. It is a shelter from society. It forges subjectivity, for better or for worse. It is universal even if it doesn't assume a singular form. The

Some seventeen years ago I was still painting the torso as an image of the human presence, when I stumbled into what I call a blind year--a year in which I had no luck, in which no image emerged. At the end of that year I destroyed forty-three bad paintings. As you can imagine, I was by then in a bad way myself, when my wife Anne Madden--herself a painter--brought me to Paris as to a place of discovery. And there indeed I did discover at the Musée de l'Homme, the Polynesian image of the human head, which like the Celtic image which I discovered the following year, represented for me--as perhaps for these two widely different cultures--the mysterious box which contains the spirit: the outer reality of the invisible interior world of consciousness.

In my own small world of painting I myself have learned from the canvas that emergence and disappearance--twin phenomena of time--are ambivalent, that one implies the other and that the state or matrix within which they co-exist dissolves the normal sense of time, producing a characteristic stillness, characteristic of the art of painting.

It was about the time the Artists' Jazz Band was organized, eighteen years ago, that I first began to live at Charlie's during the summers. I took the AJB there a couple of times and I'll never forget the tiny rowboat struggling across the river, barely above the waterline, laden down with the complete band, including a saxophones, trombones, a contrabass, and a whole set of drums. During the night I would walk down to the river for a couple of buckets of water and I'd hear the wonderful improvised music emanating from the cabin on the hill, filling the wilderness with sounds that seemed to flow naturally with the wind and the river.

My mother always considered herself to be an atypical woman of her generation. Having assembled all the evidence, I'm not so sure any more. This Mary seems to melt into so many other Mary's, so many other mothers, so many other women. Perhaps that observation is linked to this stage of my own life, when it has become the clearest that I am also my mother. Arlene Stamp Visit the web site component to this exhibition

*The Centre for Contemporary Canadian Art* *The Canadian Art Database: *Canadian Artists Files
/The Gordon Rayner Retrospective toured to the following galleries between March 2, 1979 thru September 1, 1980: London Regional Art Gallery, Art Gallery of Windsor, Rodman Hall Arts Centre (St. Catharines), Kitchener-Waterloo Art Gallery, Sir George Williams Art Gallery (Concordia University, Montreal), The New Brunswick Museum (St. John), The Art Gallery of Memorial University of Newfoundland, Beaverbrook Art Gallery (Fredericton), The Norman Mackenzie Art Gallery (University of Regina), Southern Alberta Art Gallery (Lethbridge), and the Art Gallery of Ontario. /

There is in this movement a residual rhetoric that flows from the relations between these figurations. It is possible that this rhetorical element stems from the sublimation of painterly gesture to dominantly mechanical processes in the photographic (printed and laminated in a laboratory) and wood monoprint (directly transferred without any intentional gestural articulations) elements. And because there is almost never any painterly gesture as such in my work, rhetorical figuration emerges indirectly and at the extremes of the pictorial vocabulary, both in the general organization of theme and form, and often in apparently incidental details of the photographs. Even the textures of the natural grain of the wood impression is produced by pressure of the feet, but for the most part the ‘rhetorical drama' of what is latent as painterly figuration is contained in a dynamic but controlled equilibrium between the abstract sections and the spatial unity of the photographic ground, which, as the more potent representational field, already has a superfluity of gestural movements on its own. The visual thrusts and parries, the luminous textures, the contrasts of tone and chroma; all contribute to a painterly vocabulary latent in both the abstract and photograph elements. But overriding all those movements that carry a figurative function, there is the opticality of the work — the illusions of virtual space carried by the material difference between the photographic imagery and the woodblock monoprint; both of which articulate space in a forceful but distinct way. This ‘opticality' is reinforced by various contrapuntal spatializing deuces in both the photgraphic and abstract sections. Thus the eye is ‘trapped' into plotting the logic of virtual space, the mirroric simulation of actual space that is the essential opticality of the photographic domain.

Postscript: quotes from Luis Bunuel in our present age of the prohibition of tobacco, cigarettes and cigars in public spaces:      – People smoke to celebrate a happy moment or to hide a bitter regret'      – Whether you are alone or with friends, it's a joy for all the senses."      – "He smoked until the dying hours of his life, ever faithful to the pleasure that killed him."

*_Ruchir Joshi—Also of Things: Notes for a Film Remembering Harun Farocki_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/also-of-things-notes-for-a-film-remembering-harun-farocki/>
[From the catalogue /Tony Urquhart, Twenty-five years: Retrospective/, the Kitchener-Waterloo Art Gallery, November-December 1978.] All rights reserved.

After 30 years of practice, the only thing I still wish my art to do is this: To project us into this thick Cloud of Unknowing.

Levy uses both organic and inorganic subject-matter in his sculptural work. He captures physical space. The artist masterfully winds up manipulating the physical forces of nature, in a seeming effort to try and define these forces. While this results in a fundamental transgression of original form to manmade form, it becomes evident that Levy admires the perfection in nature and attempts to recapture it.

Mon travail parle de la disparition et de notre inéluctable destin à tous par le biais des plantes en voie d'extinction (L'herbier), mais aussi par antithèse, de la vie et de mon grand intérêt pour une science à la fois mystérieuse, fascinante et près de nous, la botanique.

Availing itself of the latest developments in computer technology, animation is now moving into new spaces as part of a cultural current – videogames, mangas – that has radically changed our relationship to the drawn moving image. The visual artists chosen for this exhibition bring a free hand to the usual rules and creative approaches, offering brief, pseudo-naive narrative formats characterised by experimentation with hybrid techniques.

Ireland

under: Photography

Marman and Borins have also diversified their practice by experimenting with multi-formatted exhibitions of their work. Through the implementation and co-presentation of several artworks simultaneously, they display a form of installation art that echoes the tropes of the curated exhibition. The result of this work has been the production of large sculptures that carry clusters of smaller works formally and thematically linked within a compendium. The outcome of this approach to sculpture is to challenge the uniformity of serial art making.

Printmaker George Raab has gained an international reputation for his wilderness landscape etchings. His intaglio images are made by creating grooves and textures below the surface of zinc or copper plates. The techniques he uses most frequently are etching, aquatinting, photo etching, and watercolour painting. In etching, primarily used to create lines, the surface of the plate is covered with a liquid acid-resistant ground. Tools are used to draw through the dried ground so that when immersed in an acid bath, the exposed metal is bitten. Aquatinting is a tonal process. Rosin powder is fused using heat to selected bare sections of the plate and the resulting acid bite creates an even texture. In both these methods, the longer the exposure to the acid, the darker the area will appear in the print. In photo etching, a manipulated monochromatic photographic negative is enlarged onto litho film. It is then reworked by scratching out areas and adding to the image by drawing directly on the film with India ink. The litho film is then contacted onto the sensitized metal plate and hand worked below the surface using the preceding techniques, some of which date back to the 16th Century. The plate is cleaned, hand inked and wiped for each printing. The ink fills in wherever the metal has been disturbed. Prints are pulled on damp rag paper, which is subjected to the great pressure of a manually operated printing press. Some of the resulting images are then hand watercoloured.

Site is very important - broad 'scenic' landscape is akin to tourist post cards or snapshots. When I sketch an unfamiliar site, I feel that I fail to catch its essence. I prefer a site that I can revisit often and get to know intimately. This enables me to go beyond impressionism to a more holistic approach.

These series of presentations and discussions will seek to trace the paradoxes faced by the art historical practice when it seeks to capture and interpret contemporary art in its permanent flux and fragmentation. The forum will also address the subject of multiple art histories, their endurance as valid narratives, and the ways through which these become the object of revisions.

For the Mesa Arts Center, my work LIGHT STORM which will be installed in 2005 is made of tens of thousands of stainless steel discs that are set into paving indoors and out over an area of 27,000 square feet. The reflective pattern of these discs describes waves and vortices as if these points of light had rained down from the perforated metal sun screens and been blown into natural patterns by a strong desert wind. LIGHT STORM has no mass. It exists as reflected light and surrounding color.

/Notations/ is also about the cultural, philosophical and psychological bias revealed in the immediacy of drawing. While working on /Notations/, I was researching African Kuba cloth. They are beautiful textiles that reveal as much about African culture as they do about the provocative and arbitrary choices of the marker. The implied mathematical structures of weaving are secondary to the Kuba artist's aesthetic innovations in pattern. When the maker's of Kuba cloth divert from predictable patterns they reveal and immediacy in weaving. The images in /Notations/ are square in homage to the square Kuba cloths that I studied.

I think of my installations as unfinished inventories of fragments: objects, drawings, paintings, photographs, and other inventions. They are improvisational sites in which the constructed and the ready-made are used to question our
The exhibition at Malmö Konsthall of works by Jacob Dahlgren and Katarina Löfström presents two separate artists. But between their works interesting encounters arise aesthetic, formal, and in terms of content not least between the concrete, the representative, and the abstract. The two artists works are primarily neither theoretical nor conceptual but /visual/ and emotional. A central aspect of the exhibition is the way in which things that are apparently simple become through their transformation by the artist and our own perception (and imagination) something sensual, poetic and significant. By creating what we experience as abstract images, the artists on the one hand set us free from the limiting literalness of pure representation and make possible narratives (and emotions) with multiple layers of meaning in us, the observers. On the other hand, the artists also stress the concrete aspects (materials and form) as well as the fragmentarily representative, which is their way of simultaneously presenting content and creating a starting point for our interpretation. Jacob Dahlgren is a painter and sculptor but he works to a large extent without the traditional materials of painting and sculpture. Instead, his abstract works consist of objects which surround us in our everyday life. They might be coat-hangers, coffee mugs, lamps, or, as in this exhibition at Malmö Konsthall, a range of different materials. Arranged (for instance stacked on top of one another), the individual objects lose their intended function, their original value, and become part of something completely new. They become materials with which to paint; they become colours and shapes which form the basis of exciting visual experiences and a kind of open and democratic aesthetics which challenges our ingrained ideas. By deliberately misunderstanding one of Marcel Duchamps famous arguments, we can develop the (possibly a provocative) idea that Jacob Dahlgrens work at Malmö Konsthall is a form of painting. For Duchamps simple observation that even the most complex painting is constructed of pre-existing materials (and is therefore to be regarded as a readymade), opens up the logical possibility of in fact being able to paint even with unconventional forms of paint in principle with anything at all. But one swallow does not make a summer , nor does one dishcloth make a painting.

The work of J.W.Stewart combines photographic and documentary material (photos, reproductions, maps, typeset texts, technical illustrations, graphs and charts, etc.) in a painterly context with effects of transparency and translucency and often feature attached assemblages and dimensional or sculptural supports.

The sublime rectification of an original Brueghel presents another set of aesthetic and cultural problems. A work that speaks to the legacy of an iconoclastic Dadaist past, the Chapman Brothers parasitic approach to making art, such as their interventions with Goya, Hogarth and more From beginning to end, the notion of animism provides an allegorical relationship to that of the human condition. Irvine leads us on an experiential journey without dictating a position, letting the scenes interweave with the logic of our journey through the new exhibition spaces of SMART Project Space.

The international soloist ensemble *zeitkratzer* from Berlin examines Compostela is an exhibition which has been organized around ten individual projects by artists who share their use of photography and video, as well as a remarkable interest for the reflection on everyday issues and references to natural and human landscape, urban architectures, monuments or peripheral neighborhoods, but also to aspects, which are more difficult to symbolize, like the physiognomy – spiritual, sentimental and mood-related- of a city or even the human landscape. More than a collective exhibition on the city, Compostela is a series of entwined projects, which try to compete with and to show the present of the town.

Elsewhere in Finnegans Wake does not the fallen Finegan become "Finn Macool lying beside the Liffey, his head at Howth, his feet at Phoenix Park, his wife beside him, watching the microcosmic ‘fluid succession of presents' go by like a river of life"?
First worked out as a series of small oil studies, I found that fields of pixelated colour dabs could combine into a colour field that did some of the things that I was also trying to coax out of my landscape paintings. The last nine years have seen me continuing to experiment with this idea. Some of these paintings have combined multiple images and colour fields. The images are carefully rendered from observation. The colour fields support the objects. Some of the most recent of these paintings have not included rendered images. These canvases are completely non-objective but are accompanied by small paintings of landscapes that are hung in relation to the colour field.

Vezzolis exhibition in Leipzig was planned in conscious view of the concurrent show Geehow glamorous Andy Warhol: Stardom and Theatricality, and presents embroidered portraits of stars that refer explicitly or more generally to Warhols world. For Vezzoli, Warhol, with his almost obsessive fascination for stardom and glamour, is prototypic of a means of dealing with and instrumenting a star myth. Vezzoli realised a series of portraits especially for this exhibition in collaboration with New York star photographer Francesco Scavullo.than multiple-wall courts, easier to play on, and more accommodating of spectators, one-wall handball courts continue to provide a free and democratic venue for summer sports in the city.

In The Trip Here and Back, Plotek wrenches a vertiginous dream image of Italy out of a loose structure of dully glowing planes. Evocative shapes briefly pull free and then subside. A tall, slender tower turns a dark, luminous expanse into sky, arcades evoke the sheltered streets of Bologna, and something vaguely figurelike lurks in a corner, yet the painting remains essentially abstract. Plotek's approach is a high-risk proposition, but when he succeeds-as he often does-this artist achieves resonant, disquieting images that both demand and reward sustained attention.

Durham has taken over the nave of the former church and turned it into a repository for a heteroclite collection of objects, residues and things: a communal grave, a subversive classification or a residual map of the world. The crux of the operation lies in introducing "the profane" in its deepest etymological meaning into the religious and aesthetic temple: everything that remains "before the temple", in other words what is "before" the feast or is excluded in order to invest the sanctum with its spatial purity. Pieces of cement, wire, refrigerators, barrels, bits of glass and residues of "the sacred", speak of the space of the exhibition hall in an attempt to connect the interior of the church with all that it threw out in order to be sacralised, which is to say, transforming it into a kind of "temple of confusion".

Generous men, they paid me eighteen dollars a week to start, which was more than a fair salary for what they received in return. Wookey, Bush and Winter were to become semi-heroes in my life. I'd wander into Jack Bush's office, for example, and he'd be doing Harvey Wood's underwear ads for men and women, and we'd talk of the importance of drawing as the basis of all art. He experimented with different paints that were coming out at the time. Sometimes I'd stand for hours behind him, while he chewed gum trying to quit smoking, watching him do these marvelous illustrations. He'd talk and I'd ask questions. Once he put down his brush and said to me, 'Young Gord, if you are going to be an artist you must think of art all the time, it must be uppermost in your mind, you must rediscover your eyes, even when they are sleeping you must be looking!' I'd become bolder as time went by, learning the technical aspects of commercial art, all that it entails - printing processes, colour separations, what photographs can do, how to cut mats instead of fingers. All the while practicing, /practicing/. They gave me a raise to twenty dollars a week after the first year and allowed me to do bits and pieces in their ads: a little lettering, a little over-lay painting - which was encouraging. I started to wear suits. I was nearly eighteen and sophisticated enough to listen to a little classical music.

Mankind appears to be no more in control of its destiny today, than at any other time in the history of civilization. There is an element of the 'shock of recognition' in the contemporary relevance found in images throughout the history of art, which offers a vast array of evidence that human nature has not changed at all. Hunger for dominance and power, insatiable greed, violence and exploitation, were all subjects that the Old Masters dealt with over and over again. This familiarity is part of the underlying power through which their images continue to speak to us on a universal level.

For the past two years I have been developing a photographic portfolio which examines the contexts I find myself in as an artist: the studio, the art school, the museum, the international biennial. I am interested in all the situations in which art is found, both in its production phase and as a finished object.

*An Outline: Christos Dikeakos* This exhibition proposal has been formulated from an ongoing work that dates from 1974/1994 – a body of work that was left in a time capsule, in storage, and the ideas and sketches of my unfinished Masters Thesis on the Large Glass by Marcel Duchamp – with another related work, /May I Smoke / Puis-je fumer/, which is also aligned to Duchamp and my preoccupation with cigar smoking as a working studio pastime/activity and pseudo addiction.

Incorporating repeating patterns into her work, layering planes of dots, x's, emoticons, and canvas weave over and in with expressionistic swaths of brushstrokes. While her work has often alluded to the image space of cinema and television, Humphries's most recent work suggests the stacked and simultaneous planes of computer screens.
