Another, more recent work I produced, is the performance /Babble/, a work about how the mechanical aspects of contemporary communication transform our messages, and sometimes overwhelm the messages that are being sent. In this work, drum kits are hooked up to computers that are programmed to interpret the signals of the drums and generate texts with them. In one of the sections, the drummers play the drums in ASCII code (the code used by computers to interpret the keyboards that are attached to them) and the corresponding text is projected on to screens accompanying the performers. I write a simple text about making a machine to speak for me. It works in more or less the same way as computers do when we are typing messages, only much slower, and unlike a word processing program, if I make a mistake, I have to live with it. It is a speaking machine that so complicates the act of speaking that the message it delivers is rendered incomprehensible.

Kester's text leaves more troubling questions unaddressed: Who can "see" shifts in power? Just as you cannot "see," or for that matter witness, the workings (and embedded hierarchies) of a right, as Brown's work so adeptly lays out, I would argue that attempting a diachronic analysis, as Kester calls for, must start with how the project articulates its own demands. them further, and hands them to you as they are. No one is trying to nationalize your desires into any kind of heroic totalitarian mythos. This is no small feat, considering that it is typical for people who fear for their safety and survival to seek out symbolic forms of belonging and togetherness that appear to stabilize their families and communities. People begin to ask for the nation, the race, the creed, the sectarian, the rooted, the indigenous. The old greatness must be restored. Sentimental resources are called in to keep the community together when material resources fall short.

To accompany the exhibition, *sala rekalde* will publish a book that documents this new production by the artist. The catalogue includes texts by curator Leire Vergara, by philosopher Beatriz Preciado and by independent curator Moritz Küng.

/While one could argue the impossibility of adequately representing institutional aims in a paragraph or two, this does not mean prospectuses cannot be read as being symptomatic of the transformations art is likely to undergo in entering the university context. Accordingly, one could infer a positivist slant in their formulation of what constitutes an artistic PhD; revealing an attitude proximate to other disciplines based on the incremental accumulation of knowledge./
During my early to mid-twenties, while shedding the de Kooning influence, I started to spend more time up in the Magnetawan district near Parry Sound. I came to the realization that for the last decade I'd been reacting against the small oil-on-masonite paintings of barns, bush, ponds, rivers, and streams that I'd done with my father in the early days. I re-examined the significance of the northern landscape, and realized that there was a subject there for me. It had been in front of me all this time and was yet another means of getting away from the self-consciously urban paintings that the Abstract Expressionists were doing. Franz Kline was inspired by the Brooklyn Bridge, and de Kooning was inspired by the peeling green and pink wallpaper of the old buildings on Tenth Street in Manhattan. Mark Rothko, the more mystical of the group, was still urban in substance.

It was in the drypoint, /Flowers From J/, that the idea of an exhibition based on flowers and gardens had its inception. The print was originally a spontaneous response to a bunch of flowers sent by a family member, but the possibility of colour variations intrigued me, so I photographed them for later reference. /Red & White/ and /The Copper Wall/ are two of these variations. The oil painting, /Afternoon Flowers/ is another view of this subject.

*Juan Luis Moraza* (b. 1960, Vitoria-Gasteiz)  Under the title of /Republica, /Moraza arranges a constellation of intersections—the pending and the upcoming, the necessary and the impossible, the common and the individual, and the local and the planetary. The artistic media assemble the content in response to two questions or matters: the matter of configuration and the matter of representation. Both of these matters are concentrated in the commitments and requisites of the work brought to life in the sculptural suite on show in /Itinerarios/. 

He was always on the lookout for perfection. Byars often eschewed any kind of materialisation in his works – they were mostly short-lived performances. However, Byars also had a flair for beautiful, solid, gleaming ‘eternal materials‘ – for sandstone, marble, glass and gold. He created numerous sculptures and objects in an almost classical repertoire of forms – using elements such as the sphere, the circle, the things.

The physicality of Marman and Borins' work is central to their artistic practice. The resulting effect is sculpture that appears to be commercially produced, blurring the distinction between the mass-produced and the unique art object and thereby addressing the tensions between popular culture and the museum. This strong formal approach is contrasted by elements within their work that can be audacious, humorous and symbolically charged, with content often including mass media references. The result is work that echoes with art historical, popular culture, and structural significance. Philosophically they are interested in issues of subjectivity, mass visual language and the beholding of the work of art.

The automatist method using personal calligraphic strokes combined with my thoughts about various processes in nature led to a two year series. Motivated by my readings on nature I explored an automatist process which was structurally arranged on 'registers' such as in Egyptian pictographs and cuneiform writing only I invented my own calligraphy with the natural movement of my hand and a concept in mind. This approach to painting was spontaneous. This series led me into an exploration of the sea. Several years later I grouped the 'Tree' series, 'Phenomena of Nature', the 'Deep Sea' series and 'Earth' all under the heading of 'Earth Evidence:' and filed into categories of 'Creation',' Process' and 'Memory' which includes photography, painting and sculpture.

An overriding preoccupation in my work has been a growing doubt that painting can have contemporary relevance. Although it might be important to deconstruct and understand the art of the past from a contemporary perspective, my practice was striking me as increasingly academic. The current boom in the art market, and painting's resurgence in popularity (very similar to that of the early 1980s) only confirms that painting still feeds a populist notion of expressivity and individualism bound up in the authentic, unique object. So much for deconstructionist tactics.

Still, the sources of art's livelihood have always been dispersed, somewhat self-serving, and partly non-existent. This means that survival will probably not be a problem, and furthermore that the terms for that survival will be extremely interesting—even transformative. Art has always been made in a ghostly and somewhat treacherous economy built on solidarities and speculations, piracy and ideals: an alternative economy par excellence. As Lawrence Liang writes in his essay in this issue,

So how can the humanistic tradition of art continue when humans are turning the biosphere into a place uninhabitable by humans themselves? An artist today may now suddenly find the only addressee to be a future of despair, of catastrophic human extinction, of death. What does art look like when it is made without any future to look forward to? 

The sculptures are often turned, tilted, built upon and re-fired, investigating the strength required for negotiating the relation between our interior and exterior worlds. Heaving, disrupted, uprooted forms hover in the space between the solid and the fluid, the fissure between order and chaos, of fluidity and brittleness.

Slowly beyond the interaction of materials, inner patterns of meaning are revealed. More questions, more possibilities arise. On a good day you discover a new continent.

*_Timotheus Vermeulen—The New "Depthiness"_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/the-new-depthiness/> But what the line from /Girls /hints at is that, just maybe, we are seeing the first stage in another history of another kind of deepening, one whose empirical reality lies above the surface even if its performative register floats just below it: depthiness. 

Towards this end I have been investigating new ways of thinking about how I integrate the evocative and narrative aspects of my work, moving toward a more abstract representation of social issues. At the Glenbow Museum archives in Calgary I was invited to research cultural artifacts for their ongoing contemporary exhibition series entitled /Connections to Collections/. An ongoing theme in my work is the burden of history and memory on present consciousness and creating opportunities for its transformation. Utilizing /burden baskets/ from the Glenbow collection in combination with hand-blown glass, audio and other elements, I was able to create a rich sensory environment, resonating in history and individual memory, in which the various elements resounded together in an experiential way for viewers. This installation, /Release/, was also recreated in a second version for the Medicine Hat Museum and Art Gallery using baskets and other European artifacts from their collection.

In our long-form review, Malcolm Cossons takes a look at "When Three Dreams Cross," a sweeping photographic survey spanning 150 years at London's Whitechapel Gallery, and senior editor Don J. Cohn covers two new publications on film and visual culture in India and Pakistan, as well as a surprising artist's book by *Aisha Khalid* that is at once delightfully blank and full of persuasive, subliminal narrative.

These paintings do not intend to lull the viewer with the security of images and text mediated through conventional photo-realism or French philosophy; rendering any content safely detached and academic. Nor is the viewer entertained with the wallpaper of abstract "compositions". These paintings are uneasy fragments existing between objective experience and subjective perception. The content of these paintings exists in the conceptual space between conventional representation and the boundaries of the invisible. March 21, 1995.

In 1986 I turned to natural observation. The preceding work had reached some kind of conclusion. Making paintings from the direct observation of Nature was an honest and immediate way to rejuvenate myself and my work. The large oil paintings from 1987 to 1989 are composites of dozens of small studies painted on site. They are observations of the cycles of light and darkness, the movement of the wind and the elements over the sky, earth and water. Natural Phenomenon has taken the place of Human Narrative. The new work is more poetic and less literal. My hope is that the viewer will experience the emotional content of this work on a visceral level, like listening to music.

The Elizabeth Foundation for the Arts believes in the essential importance of art in a civil society. The value of the artist's creative spirit is not limited by age, race, nationality or acceptance by others.

After the war, platinum was again available-but it was now more expensive than gold. And prepared papers were no longer manufactured. So everything had to be done by hand using the finest materials, with infinite patience and consummate skill. Platinum prints became the special, "private reserve" of the masters.

/*Newton versus Quantum Mechanics*/ Our common view of reality is as a space/object/time phenomenon. This Newtonian perception is directly challenged by Quantum Mechanics, a new physics where distinguishable objects in space become indistinguishable at a sub atomic level. The subjectivity of the observer also affects the outcome of whether a particle or a wave is perceived in experiments.

The exhibition features two works, which have not been seen in public previously, and were once in the collection of the author Graham Greene. /A Horseman Enters a Town at Night/, 1948, is a particularly significant work. Executed in dark paint, with flashes of vermillion and cadmium yellow, this work is considered to be one of Yeats' masterpieces and The Model is delighted to premiere its showing in this exhibition.

*With all due respect to those who still comically believe that revolutionary possibilities must be linked to the revival of the working class of the twentieth century, such a potentiality clarifies that we are still dealing with a class, but a different one, and one endowed with a higher power. It is the class of cognitive labor. This is the class to liberate, this is the class that has to free itself.

On one level, /Notations/ is an drawing as an immediate and subconscious process. My past research has included and indepth study of the immediacy of painting in the work of Philip Guston during his last decade where he often completed a painting in one night. The images in /Notations/ are a compilation of drawings that I made while talking on the phone, usually about school business. I chose my phone "/Notations/" as a subject for prints because I consider them a subconscious aspect of my drawing.

In this project, curated by Jimena Blázquez Abascal, Turrell has managed to create the illusion that the sky is just within our reach, blurring the dividing line between matter and emptiness. To enter the skyspace is to come closer to the immensity of the cosmos, making one question the difference between vision and perception. Its importance also lies in the fact that it is Turrell's first permanent site-specific work produced in Spain, and his largest in Europe.

But this is not to say that people go unaltered by this kind of proliferation. And it is definitely not to say that scarcity goes away and all people become wealthy just because we can get our hands on lots and lots of computer files. No, it's just to say that the nature of what we consider a resource has been profoundly redistributed across domains of knowledge and whatever its material base has become. Original and counterfeit mutually melt. Some things can be reproduced ad nauseam while others simply decay. It is where the simulacrum is no longer deceptive in its distance from the real but just really confusing when it comes to trying to locate actual resources.

The major artistic influences on my career have been: Emily Carr, Vincent Van Gogh, The Group of Seven, and several Chinese painters of the Sung Dynasty. When not painting, I'm an avid TV watcher, mostly cartoons, and reader of art, history and religion. As well, I write poetry and play the stock market.

As dusk settles over the luminously glowing old bridge, only one solitary figure remains hanging, sheltered but alone. Jaki Irvine currently lives and works in Dublin, having spent many years in London and in Italy. Her works are single or multi-screen videos that explore with a melancholic and dreamlike humour the interaction between the natural world and the built environment, fuelled by a fascination with the human condition. hallucinatory journey into his strange and often frightening universe. Skeletons battle soldiers in murky swamps; towers of eyeballs goggle cartoonishly; flesh peels wetly off bare bones. Ziółkowski has an unflinching attitude to the corporeal: the body takes centre stage, at once defiled and dissected.

Plus Rebecca Warren, Eric Wesley, Daniel Roth, Walid Raad, Deimantas Narkevicius and Kerstin Kartscher

Drawing inspiration from the Asian ideogram, /Charles Baudelaire Long Dong Silver and Le petit prince/ complicates the relationship between content and form. The bookwork is made using the remnants of other printed matter and selective found materials. Simultaneously it is about the way in which the ideas and material practices of diverse cultural phenomena converge. Bound in black linoleum tile, the finely textured pages of this publication blend cotton pulp with tinsel, shredded money, fragments of pages from the storybook Le petit prince and images downloaded from the Long Dong Silver Web site. Text fragments are interwoven and embossed into the handmade paper to literalize the idea of the concrete poem. Taking issue with the notion of critical distance, excerpts from Charles Baudelaire's Mon coeur mis á nu are merged with ad copy stolen from the pages of a contemporary soft-core pornographic magazine. In his original story, Baudelaire used the binarism of naked/nude as an emblem of the hypocrisy of a bourgeois culture that separated private and public life. His own implication as a critic within this conflicted sphere was highly ambivalent. In this incarnation, the relationship between the critic, his objects and metaphors is more properly circumscribed.

‘museum piece' (*a work in progress*) For a number of years my practice has focused on artifacts, collections, classification, and display. In some instances I have worked directly from museum collections: the Fortress of Louisbourg, The Nova Scotia Museum, and the Museo Archeologico Siracusa. On other occasions I have created my own collections and taxonomies.

//But thrown upon this filthy modern tide
*An Overview: Ihor Holubizky* /Patisserie Duchamp: May I Smoke / Puis-je fumer/ is an installation by artist Christos Dikeakos. The subject matter is smoking, combining original works of art created by Dikeakos and in collaboration with others – drawing, photography and sculpture – with cultural artefacts and documents. The objective is neither to celebrate nor demonize, but to examine the broad social implications of a "habit" that has become a topic of foreboding and the forbidden. At the same time it would be myopic to pretend to erase smoking from history. The presentation follows a museological model, a visual text and planned accompanying publication that weaves together a social and cultural history and expressions through art and popular culture. But it is perhaps better described as a 'theatre of the museum' in which the topic is also a 'story of human behaviour and the human condition'. There must be a scholarly gravitas, yet achieved with humour and wit. Being able to laugh at ourselves is one way of learning. This subject has never been explored in this manner in a gallery or museum exhibition, and to follow, controversy should not be avoided because of timidity.

Edited together with Tom Holert, this first of a two-part issue of /e-flux journal/, though determined to focus on shine, surfaces, and light in all their aesthetic peculiarity and contemporary relevance, aims less at adding to the (still very slim) cultural history of the phenomenon than to rendering palpable the cross-sections of power and aesthetics in the material and immaterial discourses of shine—past, present, and future.

Much later in Provence, faced with the Celto-Ligurian head cult of Entremont and Roquepertuse, I asked myself if it were not perhaps this
Before 30 years passed again I returned to this photograph once more. This time after her death. It has become something else now, it is evidence. Along with all the other photographs, the voice tapes, the personal artifacts, even the handwriting, it is evidence of a life lived by a particular person who happened to be my mother. It is as difficult now to affirm my own personal reality as it was when I had only a thick pencil with which to work.

*Love is in this sense not an elevated romantic phenomenon but the economization of empathy. Love is immaterial capital in the absolute in a sphere of value relations where capital and labor are no longer the main operators or arbiters of value. As unfixed capital summons higher and higher symbolic registers into the arena of exchange, its increasing abstraction puts it constantly on the prowl for a lower base to peg value to.

My work employs both photography and painting in the production of a distinct body of work. The resulting images exhibit characteristics of photography as an expression and poetic medium - a recording device of the 'real' - while at the same time addressing painting as a dimension to express and record the emotional states and memories of the inner (subconscious) world. The images of my art production are not literal or linear in structure, but are constructed from fragmented and repetitive pieces, and represent a narrative of time, place, and memory. The work attempts to question how these histories and images live in our conscious and unconscious memories and affect our ways of seeing and perception of reality. In this way, my work questions history, the construction of time as a linear process, and the distinction between history (external body) and memory (internal body) in the process of defining identity.

I began working from nature on site in 1987. The first exhibition if this work was in 1988 in a solo show at the Carmen Lamanna Gallery, Toronto. My most recent outdoor work was exhibited in October, 1995 at the Justina Barnicke Gallery, Hart House, University of Toronto.

James Lee Byars loved what was imaginary and fleeting, equating the ephemeral and the immaterial with the material and the everlasting. He was not just an artist, he was a magician, a visionary and a dandy who understood how to cast a spell over his audience.

Les œuvres de J.W. Stewart combinent dans un environnement pictural à facture variable des matériaux photographiques et documentaires (photographies, reproductions, cartes, textes typographiques, illustrations techniques, graphiques, etc.) avec des effets de transparence et de translucidité. Il incorpore souvent des assemblages et des supports tridimensionnels ou sculpturaux.

The photography is my own, with the exception of obvious historical sources. I have traveled extensively in Northern Thailand, the home of my husband's family. He is of the Karen hilltribe who reside along the Thai/Burmese (now Myanmar) border. My work features the people of this tribe and their neighbours primarily. I am interested in the idea of "The Other", whether it is my husband within my culture or myself within his. I try to explore issues of culture clash; including the subjugation of a people, condescending attitudes toward their beliefs and customs, and the appropriation and commercialization of "exotica" for western consumption.

This issue also scales the heights of Tibet in two features. Long-time China hand Meg Maggio interviews vanguard artist and curator Qiu Zhijie about the new mode of socially-conscious art he is practicing in China by taking students from the Hangzhou Academy of Art's Total Art Studio on field trips to Tibet, where they created art works and conducted cultural surveys. In London, meanwhile, a group of expatriate artists from Tibet gathered for a roundtable with AAP contributing editor Eliza Gluckman to discuss the current state of art inspired by the place, mental and physical, known as Shangri-la.

Drawing on such sources, Emily Gove takes a humorous look at death and uses the idea of murder as a metaphor for competitiveness and treachery in female social interactions. Gove's photographs draw inspiration from zombie films, pulp fiction novels and art history texts, combining these influences into a humorous and disturbing concoction wherein several characters are in the process of murdering one another. Whether the action takes place in a movie house, a construction site or an insurance office, the characters in the photographs are constantly engaged in the act of murder, with both victim and killer portrayed by the artist. The aspect ratio of the large-scale photographs is similar to that of wide-angle movies shot in Cinemascope. This is no accident, as Gove creates a film narrative that is told as a static image.

Walldrawing approaches the wall as collective space. Here we have variants on a site-specific approach going back to such early or basic forms of drawing as cave art and graffiti.

I often spit out my dirty secrets on to beds. The loaded references of this site beg for the whispering of my secrets, spoken through scared sheets, feather breasts and fluffy pink wool nests. They invite me to stitch, stuff, spit and smear imaginary shapes that are expressions of my inner worlds made outer. The sculptural pieces become the amalgamation and display of my repetitive gestures, a trace of their history.

by Iris Jaffe from Hyperallergic
Smoking tobacco has played a role in art both as an inspiration and as a psychoactive mood altering substance since it took acceptance in 17th century Europe. In an unconscious way, an entire Western civilization used the devices of tobacco and coffee, which produced mind-altering shifts that registered in the workings and experiences of the brain. Needless to say the brain has for centuries relied on smoking as a craving and pleasure addiction. Cigar smoke especially since the early twentieth century was the air, which "stank" of the noteworthy company of artists' egos in public cafes and restaurants. Now in the twenty-first century, we are witnessing the end of tobacco as a psychoactive force; it is prohibited in public places, marking a /fin de siècle/. The title /May I Smoke / Puis-je fumer/, therefore is a grammatically potential optative with a less positive expression of the future or the present, requiring the permission of others, as it is no longer a desirable or imperative action.

Au mur, des panneaux, dont le statut reste incertain; des lignes, des taches, des masses, un minimum d'interventions faites sur des contreplaqués accrochés d'une façon régulière. Ni vraiment surfaces brutes, ni vraiment dessins, ni vraiment peintures, ils forment une collection d'images indéfinies et floues dont le rapport de l'une à l'autre tient plus à une juxtaposition quasi aléatoire d'écarts et d'oppositions qu'à une continuité ou à une logique évidente. Ils participent d'une certaine forme d'indétermination.

The Earth Evidence series starts with various representations of detritus found in ocean tide pools, along streams, on beaches etc. gradually moving onto the escarpment as inspiration and as structure. My love of hiking in wild places of the world and here on the Bruce Trail fuel my imagination to make these images. Various translations of rock faces have been developed, some which adhere to nature while others merely mimic a loose grid of the forms found in rock layers. Gradually whispers of fossil like forms appear between the layers. Eventually the walls give way to my inventions of new hybrids. I am concerned with the collapse of species, such that the diversity of genetic lineages is lost to the future. New hybrids may form where possible after some panic of species to find mates from what ever is left after the collapse of eco-systems in the near future. These shapes have been inspired by the Burgess Shale found in Alberta which hold fossils of creatures that had evolved in an ancient ocean before animals walked on land. These did not continue to evolve. Some forms are plant like while others suggest primitive animals.

My friend Coughtry once said he continued to make art because there wasn't anything better to do. When you think about it, it's a profound statement. Painting is a remarkable unending adventure, full of risk and commitment. The joy is, there will always be new ways to bring home old truths, other ways to rediscover your eyes.

In my late twenties I began to pack in boxes of paint, bolts of canvas. I would go into the bush and seek out young poplars, to make an easel out of them, always using the local elements. Sometimes I'd utilize the wooden window shutters or the cedar shingle siding of the cabin, stretching the canvases over them. Consequently, I would get an indelible impression of what it was I was painting upon, soaking through the canvas. Up north I paint in the daytime, simply because at night I live by the light of coal oil lamps. I've tried working at night in the cabin and had some fun with it, with fifty candles burning at once; I nearly burned the place down. The colour, of course, is entirely different when you see it the next day. I concluded I couldn't do major works in the dark. So I began working in notebooks - collages, drawings, cartoons, ideas, prints, poems. Working in what we now refer to as Charlie's Books became a communal activity. Coughtry, Markle, Kubota and my friend John O'Keefe, the writer-sea captain, would visit and occasionally stay for a month at a time. Every evening, after a delicious dinner, the big square table would be cleared. There would follow the inevitable elbowing for room to draw, as everyone tried to grab more lamplight than the next guy. It was a delight; instead of playing cards or reading to pass the dark night, we'd be doing these books simultaneously. Occasionally we'd work in each other's books; the overlaps are pretty interesting. There was much playing of chess, drinking, talking, and laughter; but mostly we busied ourselves, entertaining each other with those marvelous books. And there was always music, thanks to a battery-operated record player -- I spent more money on batteries than on art supplies.

Painting can safely be explained as pleasant design and perceptual system. But sometimes we glimpse proof of the frailty of our contemporary belief in an orderly rational universe. This is when a painting can strike fear and loathing in our civilized composure. Painting as threat.

Marks, dots congregate, congeal and the line forms, accretes, wanders and so I follow it. "...the refuge of the road..."1

This displacement produces a critical reference to the problematic relations that still remain between the legitimacy of painting and photography as constituted in the discourse of high art. My particular position on this issue is briefly stated as follows: that the ideal space of painting as an historically produced space of potential meaning, as the ‘ground of signification', can be itself also a ‘material effect' — that is, that the ‘poetics' of painting, rendered apparently obsolete by the vulgar specificity of the mechanical representation of the ‘real', can be recuperated, needs to be recuperated, as a functio-nal element in the construction of significant, historically compelling meaning. This recuperation of the conversion of the ideality of painting into a material effect is carried out through the dialectical and critical (and ironic, for what is given away is also taken back) contestation of representational function of both painting and photography (its arch-rival in the static visual arts at least) in the field of the picture.

My taboo-ridden pieces are often like a putrid smell everyone tries to ignore. It's like licking make-up off someone's face and revealing their imperfections. I try to lick the audience's face with my gooey tongue in an effort to shake their framework of what constitutes the speakable. Just to see if I can. Just to see if you will listen.

Francis Fukuyama, and even his mentor Alexandre Kojève before him, warned of boredom, stasis, and homogeneity being characteristics of the "universal homogenous state" that would mark the end of history. As Fukuyama put it: in the post-historical period there will be neither art nor philosophy, just the perpetual caretaking of the museum of human history. And indeed, the phase of contemporary art has also been characterized in discussions over recent years as a reformatting of time into a perpetual present. The contemporary is the now that never ends, the art that circles itself at the tail end of history looking back on defunct ideologies, archiving and polishing them for a future that never arrives.

The scale of conspiratorial thinking in Russia is now comparable to that of the US after 9/11.* *But the problem with conspiracy theories is not the fact that they are false products of a paranoiac imagination, but rather that some conspiracies /do/ exist. To reject this means to turn a blind eye to one of the many important tools of world politics. It thus seems crucial to avoid a simplistic opposition between middlebrow paranoiac thinking, and apparently enlightened reason unaware of its own blind spots.

I once wrote, "I am not able to find my thoughts without passing through his [Jalal Toufic's] words, books, and concepts." Now, eight years later, things seem to have gotten worse (or better).  Jalal wrote in /Distracted/:  — Are you saying this to me?  — Also to myself. One should speak solely when also speaking to oneself. Only then is there a dialogue. I can also think of the following situation:  — Are you saying this to me? — Yes. And not to myself. And only to you. Or an instance in which the following is heard:  — Are you saying this to me?  — Also to myself. One should speak solely when also speaking to oneself. Only then is there a duologue.

The erosion of cultures--and of "culture" as a whole--is the theme that runs through the last 25 years of my artistic practice. Cultures arise, become obsolete, and are replaced by new ones. With the vanishing of cultures, some people are displaced and destroyed. We are currently told that the paper book is bound to die. The library, as a place, is finished. One might say: so what? Do we really believe that "new technologies" will change anything concerning our existential dilemma, our human condition? And even if we could change the content of all the books on earth, would this change anything in relation to the domination of analytical knowledge over intuitive knowledge? What is it in ourselves that insists on grabbing, on casting the flow of experience into concepts?
While the 13th century development of this notion of time, ëmetric timeí, has also become one of the cornerstones of Western civilization. It has also been instrumental in alienating humans from themselves and each other. Without the metric time concept, science, industry and technology could not have developed. However, our sense of time as it relates to the environment and our biology has been suppressed in the process. I believe it has resulted in a human experience that is often skewed away from the essences of being human.

I stayed on in New York for the next eight years, painting and doing odd jobs, including work as an assistant film editor. Although never interested in making my own movies, my painting was informed by the narrative structure of film.

The Artist represents a young, naked and exhausted woman fighting with her struggles personified by a frightfully leering, undefined mask overlooking her. With her left hand, she hides a bloody sword and presents a wound on the same side. The mask threatens the young lady, watching her steadily and relentlessly. The lady is desperate, temporarily unable to overcome her sense of bewilderment and duress; She tried to kill her fears, but couldn't!

The process of creating itself is a key element in Janet Logan's work and it makes up an integral part of her research into identity. From the choice of material to the exploration and creating of forms in the studio until the installation of the work in the exhibition space, the whole creative process is imbued with a ludic quality that is a continuation of childhood play. The abstract forms thus created and collected together are the result of a merging of fiction and reality. They stimulate the viewer's imagination and give rise to various emotions, feelings, thoughts and most certainly reminiscences associated with childhood.

However, by giving the painted sections a more active part than its previous metaphorical function as the ‘ground' to the ‘figurative' or signifying function of the photograph, I have reconfigured the painted segments to now function as the figure, with the photograph as the ground. Some impli-cations of this inversion will be elaborated upon later in the discussion of the subsequent work, EI Taller. This raises some theoretical questions that have yet to be fully answered. What, for example, are the implications of this for the relative hierarchical relationships between painting and photo-graphy as it has evolved historically? Is this a repositioning in my work of painting as a signifying gest-ralism in itself? Until this point ‘gesturalism' has always been repressed in my work and is, in my opi-nion, the most problematic aspect of painterly technique. In more general terms, does this constitute a fundamental shift in my work? Whatever the case, the ‘hermeneutic substance', the significantly readable aspect of the subject matter given by the photographic element in these works, assumes a new relation to abstraction. Even though the theme of the studio references the production of the work itself, the absence in these works of the human figure, the artist as ‘actor', protagonist, and producer, sublimates the ‘figurative' function of the photograph as a signifying representation to the relatively more dynamic painterly per-formance of the abstract segments. The author as producer here is present not as a self-legitimizing ‘hero', but as an ‘absence' looking back through the ‘space of production', reflecting on work in the process of its self-definition.

By this time I was living at 18 _ St. Mary Street, another old Victorian building split up into apartments, which is now some dull high-rise, and through Ross Mendes I met Al Fleming, a great designer who loved paintings and reminded me that it was possible, even maybe a responsibility, for artists to love all art forms as long as they were excellently executed. When Ross saw I was doing steel sculpture he introduced me to Gerry Gladstone who had also begun to work in steel, and we would talk all night long and longer. We'd have jam sessions. I was playing drum brushes on the back of beer cases, Gladstone was playing flute, Coughtry was singing the blues and Mike Snow was already playing brilliant piano. This music has been more of a social tie than our private art. We always had that in common, the fun, the gatherings; not when we were alone struggling in studios, but when we got together at those great parties: people pounding garbage cans (they were metal in those days) and singing the blues.

In my installations, I am interested in how the work is physically apprehended by the viewer to challenge his imagination. In /Solipsism/ and /The Chinese Game / Le jeu chinois/, the visitor enters a space where he is submerged whereas in other installations his only access is from the outside: through portholes (/I lie / Je mens/), through the peephole of a locked door (/The other side of the world / Le bout du monde/) or through a fixed doorway (/A Castle in Spain / Un château en Espagne/) and (/Castles in Spain again / Encore des châteaux en Espagne/). In these installations, everything is not for one's eyes to see and one must use one's imagination to comprehend the work. Even more radical, the project /My life without gravity/ consists of a closed cube whose interior remains physically unattainable. Within are the sounds of fireworks and strobe lighting seen through a constellation of holes in the cube's walls. Close to the cube, a video projects me, climbing a ladder and disappearing in smoke and falling in the void. /Château d'air / Air Castle/ on the other hand, is an assemblage of sixteen closed doors, placed in such a way as to suggest the form of a castle or a tower and which the visitor has no physical access. As in /My life without gravity/, one perceives stroboscopic lights synchronised with the sound of fireworks through a constellation of holes pierced on the surface of the doors. This inaccessible black castle, both magical and menacing, readily suggests Franz Kafka's Castle.

My art practice follows three increasingly interlaced avenues - video, web art, and public intervention. I have also begun to work in other media, such as drawing or photography, where conceptually appropriate. Much of my work is meant to be stumbled upon in everyday life and requires the participation of a very general audience.

These ‘abstract' sections are the dynamic, ‘hot', shifting part of the canvas as contrasted to the ‘cool', more inert quality of the monochromatic, black and white photographic element, and thus they make a figurative effect against the pictorial ground. Other than the fact that they are all rectangular segments ‘cut from the whole', they are limited in number and are clustered together so that they replace the approximate area of the canvas in which the photographic segment is missing. Yet despite the limits that this almost systematic function might seem to place on the spontaneous ges-ture that could be suggested by these painted (actually ‘impressed') elements, they do in fact produce a sensuous and pictorially expressive reciprocity with the work as a whole. The contrasts of colour and tone between the painted ground and the woodblock impression, between the chromatic and textu-ral contrasts of the abstract segments themselves, and in the interplay between their rectangularity and the rectangular forms that shape the architectural features of the photographic portion of the images, characterizes what I would identify as ‘painterly' in the classic sense; that is, as representation primarily concerned with the construction of pictorial space through gestural mark-making.

In contemporary urbanization, a plethora of symbols and meanings has become the generic curtain behind which the abstraction of capital operates. It is for this reason that the task of the coming architecture  is not simply to unmask the undeniable abstraction of architecture as a process, but to make legible a form of architecture in which the awareness of the conditions in which we dwell can become the precondition for new forms of life within and against the power of abstraction.

My work grows from the duel between the isolated individual and the shared awareness of the group. At first I made single figures without any freedom at all: blind houses without any openings, any relation to the outside world. Later, tiny windows started to appear. And then I began to develop an interest in the relationship between two figures. The figures of this phase are turned in on themselves, but they try to be together even though they may not succeed in reaching each other.

Chromogenic print, 37-1/4 x 44-1/2 inches framed (94.6 x 113 cm), Edition of 7

One can imagine a full shift of attention towards survival technologies. An artist must find ways to harness nuclear energy, to build better bunkers, to financialize everything possible by hoarding abstract capital that can only be spent on symbolic capital. Do we know what this art looks like? It might in fact look like nothing at all—hidden away inside a bunker, or appearing as a mirror that shows you your own image, but turned up a notch. Purged of positivist fantasies, it might only appear as money does: as an uncannily base dumb material like a stone or iron ore, but one that comes with a ghostly promise of eventually being exchanged for something better that may never come to pass.

I went to the Varley Museum to see an exhibition of work by the Painters Eleven.

The project is scouting for a public space in the public space through the possibility of a scream. [ . . . ] The inaudible scream that lingers in those photographs perhaps brings into question their political existence.

*The term "performance" is slippery even within relatively well-defined contexts. In today's economy, it not only refers to the productivity of one's labor but also to one's actual, quasi-theatrical self-presentation, one's self-performance in an economy where work has become more dependent on immaterial factors.

My experience as a printmaker made it a logical step to combine the actual techniques of paper marbling with watercolour. The majority of my smaller works on paper were made using this method. The figure in each piece, orchid or frog was drawn in the paper and then protected by a stencil. Paints were then manipulated on the surface of a viscous fluid, and then transferred by contact to the paper. Later, the stencil was removed and the rest of the image painted in.

The presented artworks will re-read Asian tradition with its continual fascination for the sacred, the absolute, philosophies and journeys. These meditative itineraries take place essentially in the museum's Japanese collections, offering three distinct orientations: gesture and calligraphy, architecture and volumes, rituals and memory.

/*Reality is complex */ Cultures like the San Bushmen of the Kalahari or the Australian Aborigines have no problem reconciling alternative versions of reality. They see experiential reality as part of an overall Dreamtime or Spirit-world. One of the features of this way of thinking is to see the animals and environment as part of the self and vice versa.

*David Zink Yi* uses his work to explore cultural traditions from a horizontal and intimate perspective, both with groups and communities and with precise social and historical situations.

I became aware of how I moved through space very early in this process and now often choose my ways carefully in view of this awareness of doing these mostly mundane tasks. But I never just go out to 'make tracks' (as others have done). I have uploaded one of my more interesting run to a website, where runners share their favourite runs from all over the world, and was surprised that they were mostly not very interesting visually.

Often times these themes are combined into installations that feature mundane domestic objects painted blue, juxtaposed with whimsical objects, and often embellished with stenciled text. The color blue establishes a dream-like surreal quality, suggests notions of calmness and safety, and formally unifies the disparate objects in each installation. The texts provide clues to content and interpretation.

Paint Palettes further explores the notion of the decorative, by parodying ordinary household paint colours and their exotic, grandiose paint names. Each piece is presented as an oversize paint sampler, depicting 65 identical garage doors sporting a variety of paint shades. The differences between shades is subtle, and at times hardly noticeable, yet the paint names differ radically, intimating that garage door paint can reflect a great deal about the lives of the home owners.

*_Tess Lea—"From Little Things, Big Things Grow": The Unfurling of Wild Policy_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/%e2%80%9cfrom-little-things-big-things-grow%e2%80%9d-the-unfurling-of-wild-policy/> Tracing (dys)function—how it occurs, and to whom, what, and how it is ascribed—might yield fleeting glimpses of the stealthy means by which systems of slow death occur under liberal beneficence, yet such hard-to-ameliorate, enclosure-refusing life routes also resists neat homilies. This too is a condition of their non-narratability: the requirement to abandon a text without satisfactory end, for morally affirming conclusion is also a misleading tact.

The first exhibition I had was in the upstairs lobby of the now-defunct Odeon Toronto movie house at College and Yonge. About this time, I met Dennis Burton and because of his studies at the Ontario College of Art I became friends with a variety of young artists including Robert Markle, Rick Gorman, Marlene Markle and Larisa Pavelchenko who were all in the same year at the college. I was fascinated by children's art, certainly a different world of vision than that studied at O.C.A., and the art of Paul Klee. Klee and Ben Shahn, my other influence then, had something in common in a graphic sense. Shahn was another artist tempting to imitate, especially as I had had training in the graphic arts. Once you fell in love with Ben Shahn's work you just had to follow his lines. Half the people I knew at that time were doing Ben Shahn. When I met Graham Coughtry a couple of years later he was a Ben Shahn expert. When I met him I asked him, 'What do you think of Paul Klee?' He said, 'See that guy over there, he's a Paul Klee expert, go and talk to him.' The person he was speaking of was Mike Snow, who was influenced in his early work by Klee. By this time, 1955-56, Burton, Robert Smith and I shared the upstairs loft in an old Victorian house called the Villa Crispin. We talked incessantly about art, music, and women. One thing that brought Burton and I together as close friends is that we were both jazz fanatics. We also had a mutual interest in classically based music, and the stirrings of a form called electronic music. Anything that was new, or unfamiliar, would be debated. It was during this time that I learned a great deal about historically traditional art through self-imposed study. I used to take what we called 'The Ontario College of Art Lessons,' from Dennis Burton; that is, the exercises he received as homework from teachers such as Fred Hagan. I'd never heard of things like flattened perspective before. Burton literally taught me. I'd ask him and he's explain it. Also I had the advantage of seeing his expert examples. He was a fantastic student. He won several prizes at the school. Despite some tough arguments there was never any animosity. We were, however, branching away from one another, as our individual styles began to develop, slowly, surely. I went through a period of Rico Le Brun influence that came through Dennis. I found out later that Robert Hedrick (whom I hadn't yet met) had studied with Le Brun in Mexico. Dennis studied with him in California. The facts leave a web that would make a marvelous graph if someone could ever put it together. About that time Painters Eleven mounted a major show at Hart House. Burton and I attended enthusiastically. What knocked me out were Bill Ronald's paintings. There were two or three of them - they burned into my brain. I didn't like Jack Bush's paintings then; they seemed awkward. The Tom Hodgson's were impressive, but to a lesser degree. I couldn't understand the work of Hortense Gordon but Alexandra Luke's work evoked a certain tingle.

So I carve landscapes out of books and I paint Romantic landscapes. Mountains of disused knowledge return to what they really are: mountains. They erode a bit more and they become hills. Then they flatten and become fields where apparently nothing is happening. Piles of obsolete encyclopedias return to that which does not need to say anything, that which simply IS. Fogs and clouds erase everything we know, everything we think we are.

I create installations, sculptures and paintings reflecting on social issues and the human condition. Originally from South Africa, I became a Canadian citizen in 2011. In the 90's I created walk-in situational paintings, often with audio. 'The Death of Lucas' was inspired by a mob murder that took place in front of me. The story is on my website.

Extraction Agent: is a liquid applied through the action of painting but does not impose in the same manner as paint. The action of painting with extraction fluid, extracts the pigment from the ground space and creates a form of space within the black velvet field. With this substance, an alchemical reaction occurs that turns the painted mark to gold so that something other than a positive / negative polarity occurs and something other than an object is created.

figurative
Art should raise questions. The true artist helps the world by revealing mystic truths.

/"Cyborg women weave translucent thought into sturdy cloth and with Arachne still defy the gods." "Nature weaves a digital dream into the text and Philomela has her own web page now." "The Fates still weave with Ada's help on ancient looms and computers...."./ (artist's quotes for an earlier weaving)
During the same dates, *The Abstract Cabinet* of *sala rekalde* will host the project */Here and now! New forms of feminist action./* This exhibition is proposed as a space for encounter, reflection, debate and resistance around ways of doing that incorporate feminist thought, queer politics and postcolonial discourses in artistic practice. The exhibition focuses on different editorial practices developed internationally within the format of fanzines, magazines, and other kinds of editorial proposals. The publications included in the show such as *Cuntstunt, Iconoclasistas, Artísimas, Tomboi, Malmoe, Prolongue, Grrrrl Zine Network, Girl Like Us, Mujeres Públicas, Belcro, O.R.G.I.A., Regina* and *Pripublikarrak* among many others fit within the parameters of DIY, at the junction between editing, artistic practice, feminism and collaboration
For a park near the new Broncos stadium in Denver, the work PASS THROUGH THE LAND was recently completed. I brought the rough textures and rich colors of the mountains into the urban environment. The massive boulders are set into concentric rings to suggest a labyrinth or maze, an ancient symbol of passage. Natureís forms are translated and ordered. At the entrance to this stone work are five 28 foot high towers with perforated metal silhouettes of aspen trees animated by hundreds of stainless discs hanging in the openings of the mesh. The wind creates wind chimes and a shimmering play of light. Visitors to the park pass beneath this grove and through the stone circles on their way to Invesco At Mile High Stadium.

All of Manitoba is covered under five separate agreements; Treaties 1 and 2, Treaty 3, Treaty 4 and Treaty 5 signed between 1871 and 1956. The entire northern half of Manitoba as well as parts of Saskatchewan and the North West Territories were ceded through a key adhesion to Treaty 5 in 1908. Currently, a number of ongoing First Nations claims regarding Government failure to honor treaty commitments remain in contention.

Forms of Collectivity and their Critique: Neither the individual nor the collective is a self-enclosed given. Both are constructs, subject to mutation. How do we signalise those sparking points in cultural practice, where an interplay between artistic choice and civic volition could bring about a burst of critical agency? While some artists camouflage themselves as fictional collectives or use heteronyms, others distance themselves from ascribed or inherited formations; yet others subscribe or affiliate themselves to collective projects, artistic and political.

Rhona Byrne makes objects; site-specific, gallery and context-based installations; films; publications and collaborative event-based projects. These projects focus on the interplay between people and their surrounding environment at both macro and micro levels. Byrne's work explores and engages with the multilayered surfaces and workings of the built environment and navigates intangible and transient layers of He began his career as an architectural psychologist in the early 1960s and has published widely on varied aspects of psychology and is best known for his theory of the Psychology of Place.

shoddy Situationist stunt and one of those T-shirts that corrupt corporate logos: The sign was peeled of the wall by a pill-popping clubber who stuck it to

Creative Chaos represents the Collection of the Figurative-Abstract paintings. The characteristics of these Artworks consist in the instinctive approach enriched with a vivid chromaticism and Artist philosophy of life. Using the pure elements of form, line, color, composition, texture, pattern and process the Artist expresses her primordial sense of freedom suggesting the viewer intuition where each painting will lead to.

In my paintings, the big change came after that Albright-Knox show. The Painters Eleven exhibition prior to that had caused a major alteration in my work from natural imagery to abstraction, and the confirmation of those ideas became resolved through the Albright-Knox abstract expressionist show, trips to New York City, and then much more study through reproductions. We were the art magazine fans of the world; we all had subscriptions to /Art News/. We read every page and discussed it all. De Kooning was my favourite artist at the time. Before I had reached this stage both /Time/ and /Life/ magazines came out with spreads on Jackson Pollock. I was infuriated. I was certain this wasn't art. I was ready to picket with a banner in front of The Museum of Modern Art saying 'You're being fooled,' but I was intelligent enough to realize that if I was going to fight against this aberration I had to know my facts, accumulate ammunition. So I started really to study it, read about it, went to Buffalo to see it. Within one year, I was a complete convert. I had become the number one de Kooning fan in the world not realizing there were only about 50,000 artists in the U.S. doing second-string de Koonings. I even did a series of paintings that were of women grinning with big teeth. What really happened, of course, was that by emulating so literally the de Kooning techniques I learned an enormous amount in a very short time. But I was just realizing that there wasn't enough /Rayner/ in my work. The only difference was that I had left-handed instead of right-handed brush strokes. So, I consciously tried to break with the de Kooning influence while trying to maintain the essence of everything I'd learned. One way to break was to look more deeply and thoroughly into other artists' work. My paintings started to get gentler.

After Yonge Street, I lived on Keewatin Avenue, a cul-de-sac that backed on a Jewish cemetery. At its end was what we called 'Sherwood Forest,' completely untouched wild bush. I had real bows and arrows but I was trained not to shoot friends or other animals out of season. I learned to keep my hunting knife sharp, build a good campfire, and tell one owl from another. We'd go out at night, sit silently in the bush and listen for an owl. I used to come home with quart baskets full of fresh watercress every spring from the little stream that flowed through there. Now the stream is polluted and the forest is a landscaped park.

/Ivan Kožarić. Freedom Is a Rare Bird/ is organized by Haus der Kunst in cooperation with the Museum of Contemporary Art Zagreb.

I was drowning. I was five. A sunny August day, sitting on a single rounded rock in mid stream. Who put me there? I can't swim. Sliding down the green slime into a wonder-ment of dazzling light and greens watching the last gasp of bubbles. My eldest daughter once said she wanted to go home although she was home. In Nova Scotia, I live surrounded by woods. My painting prac-tice for the last ten years has been about watery places. All I really want people to do is fall in and drown in the work. Perhaps, the need to find home. That's why I paint. Since 1975 my painted work has dealt with surface tensions between figuration and abstraction, geometry, and organicism in play with large elemental fields of colour, or black and white. The paintings from (1997-2000) utilized a variety of international signaling codes; such as marine signal flags, ground to air signals, and Morse code. In the past works, these spatial images portended to vast oceanic voyages, and dangerous crossings in a dialec-tical tension with the systemic pattern and codifica-tion of the signal props. The work in this exhibition are more elemental and evocative of particular creat-ed spaces and places.

Le processus même de création demeure un élément clé dans le travail de Janet Logan et il constitue une partie intégrante de sa recherche identitaire. Du choix des matériaux au travail d'exploration et de réalisation des formes en atelier, jusqu'à l'installation dans la salle d'exposition, tout ce processus de création est investi d'une part ludique en continuité avec les jeux de son enfance. Les formes abstraites ainsi créées et rassemblées sont le résultat de la fusion du réel et de la fiction. Elles stimulent l'imagination, suscitent chez le spectateur diverses èmotions, des sensations, des réflexions et très certainement des réminiscences associées à l'enfance.

The body parts are used in conjunction with referenced to cultural artifacts, contemporary and ancient. In the resulting composite images/objects various time periods and locations coexist simultaneously. Tablets, textiles, scrolls, sculptures, paintings, maps, manuals and medical illustrations are alluded to; some from long extinct civilizations. The human desire to leave a mark, to alter the terrain, to create and understand is mapped onto the body in the form of excerpted images and texts, tables, diagrams and designs. The body presents a site for the writing of these histories and for the examination of diverse systems of knowledge, organization and understanding.

My painting follows from that of Miro, Pollock, Louis, Frankenthaler and Poons. By exploring the fluid forms of painting, images or motifs are derived from the painting process itself. The process of layering fluid colour and opening the surfaces to reveal colour enables me to compose my images. The topographical separations in the paint, dubbed /crazing/, have many associations with natural organisms - like the opening of the earth's surface or magnified biological cells - reflecting the behavior of the paint itself. I select, edit, collage, crop and undulate the surfaces of the shapes to create the necessary tension, balance and unity in the formal character of the works.

But it's getting cold out there. Something in this setup is shifting below our feet. Something is making the image of the people fuzzy, increasingly vague—a floating signifier missing its referent. Now militants who might have once fought for an idea are increasingly self-interested. Artworks are starting to function more like investment vehicles that no longer need to be seen by people. And some say that our most recent stage of planetary evolution—our current geological epoch—is distinguished mainly by the permanently destructive effects of human industry on the biosphere, in species extinction, deforestation, pollution, radiation, and so on. Which is to say that humanity can no longer be taken as the solution to anything. On the contrary, and from the perspective of the earth, humanity looks increasingly like the problem. 

Zorica Vasic's video /Shooting Range/ illustrates America's fascination with guns and violence. Culling videos from Internet advertisements for shooting targets and rearranging them into an onslaught of brutality, the artist shows children and elderly ladies wielding powerful automatic weapons designed for armed combat. People shoot their guns sometimes with such excess that the whole affair takes on a surreal quality. In Vasic's video, the shooting range target becomes a surrogate for the helpless victim of gun violence. The targets are sometimes static, sometimes motorized. As they are shot down, they slowly rise back up; once in place they are shot down again, creating a feedback loop of violence.

Adapting itself to the evolution of world's culture, the Guimet museum as a living place organizes cultural events connected to Asian cultures: film reviews, concerts, dance shows and theatre… artists are working at the crossroads between music and the visual arts. Which strategies characterise these works? Which effects do they attempt to evoke? And how do they relate to the extensive legacy of aural and visual experiments of the 20th century avant-garde? The exhibition resulting from these investigations includes more than 80 artworks ranging from painting, drawing, sculpture and installations, to photography, video and pure sound and focuses, with a few exceptions, on recent production. The musical input ranges from classical to rock, pop and independent but most of all the exhibition underlines how music and visual arts can be melted into a unique artistic vocabulary. Thus being a lively approach to the classical theme of a paragon of the arts, the emblematic example being the title-giving painting, /I Wish This Was A Song/ by British artist Tim Ayres.

Music is an important element in popular culture. It plays a role for the identity of people and social relationships. Like visual art it is culturally rooted, but it is also universal and independent of other language codes. Music and lyrics of songs can be poetry, manifestoes, political discourses; they can be gentle courting messages or declarations of conflict, entertaining or thought-provoking. Like an art work which makes you dwell in colours or dance around its forms, a piece of music can break all rational resistance and take you on a journey of sensual sensations. Like an art installation, an experimental music piece can build up an imaginary space with an almost architectonic quality or fill it up with sculptural presence. It is therefore no surprise that music has been appropriated by artists as part of their creative and expressive strategies, by playing with its qualities and valences as a raw material. Whilst parts of the exhibition will actually set the visitors into motion, others will halt them in contemplation. Mute instruments are turned into sculptures and installations invite us to imagine music with our eyes. Exploring the different artistic strategies that are employed to capture music in visual arts, the exhibition is organized in seven chapters:/Looking to the classics, Move it! //Performative Sculpture, Sing Along, Sounds of Silence, Synesthesia /and an extensive/Live /program throughout the course of the exhibition/./
The mayor, with the town's approval, rejects the offer, saying: "We are in Africa but the drought will never make us savages." The village

/Consciousness is a singular of which the plural is unknown and what appears to be the plurality is merely a series of different aspects of this one thing./

The diversity of the artists chosen allows for a real mix of stylistic sequences: Benoit Broisat's tracking-shot through the memory of a city; the psychedelic, algorithm-rich world of Ryoko Aoki and Zon Ito; Vidya Gastaldon's electromagnetic waves; and Camille Henrot's ghostly filmed graffiti. Others, like Roberto Cuoghi, tweak the basic aesthetic of the cartoon and its main protagonists, while Lionel Sabatte does the same for computer science with his computer-generated clips and Sammy Stein reworks the Gameboy as the support for an ancestral fable. Working in black and white, Ana Maria Millan & Andres Sandoval draw on B-movies, and Virginie Barre et Stephane Sautour reduce horror movies to a few key elements of mise en scene.

Thinking about the ways in which humans intervene in nature leads to a lot of, "What if?" questions. For example, let's look at what 's happened to a variety of fruits, vegetables, chickens and other foods as a result of human intervention. It seems that much of the flavour has been leached out of many foods. Certainly, we can be sure that tastelessness isn't a quality that anyone wanted but it looks like that's what has occurred. It is an unintended byproduct of intervention in the natural world. *So what if, as a result of the stepped up pace of genetic meddling in the natural wold, all the leaked out of nature?* – adding a new dimension to dystopian scenarios envisioned by artists and others.

*_Natasha Ginwala and Vivian Ziherl—_*_*The Negative Floats: Questions of Earth Inheritance*_ <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/the-negative-floats-questions-of-earth-inheritance-2/> The question then remains, how might suffering manifest as aberrational phenomenon—not least as earth-image but also as impossible terrestrial formation? To borrow from Fernand Braudel, in what ways may landforms transfigure as events of interruption and be themselves "the dust of history?" Against the sedimentary backdrop of monopoly power, land may be found in circulatory appearances and as a force of eruptive displacement.

But the point that must be acknowledged here is that painting, even in its most idealized and essentialist aesthetics is not ‘immaculately conceived': — it is itself a technical invention, materially and manually produced to function as the dominant form of pictorial representation throughout most of the history that established its privileged position as the ‘horizon of meaning' in western high culture, that is, as ‘the idea of the picture'; and that photographic representation continues this logos in a modernized mode of production. In the historical displacement of its representational function by the mechanical means of representation (photography, film, video, etc.) painting fell back on its histori-cally-evolved status as the ideal essentialist space of meaning — that of modernist abstraction. These works in part are shifting this idealist space of painting over to a technical, material discourse and thus to an ‘expressive' discourse filtered through mechanical process.

In my latest collection of still life imagery, I follow in the footsteps of the great masters of the Baroque period and harness the ambiguous meaning of objects to compose satirical illustrations that not only evoke the fleeting qualities of time and the transience of life in general, but place particular emphasis on the absurdities of our fast-paced modern life. Art is Spiritual

Peralta Ramos's egg shares the room with German filmmaker Lutz Mommatz's film, Markeneier (1967); Argentinean artist Eduardo Navarro's travelogue to the core of a volcano, and works by Polish painter Agnieszka Brzezanska. Very little documentation remains of the piece Peralta Ramos created as his contribution to the final Instituto Torcuato di Tella show in 1965. The few black-and-white photographs that exist show the large egg alone with its maker on a thin plinth on the gallery floor. There are some dark areas in the plaster; the piece was not entirely dry at the time of the show. Surviving friends who saw the piece recall that the work was made in such a hurry that it broke immediately after the jury declared it the winner of that year's Di Tella Art Prize. A relative of Peralta Ramos similarly remembers that the artist miscalculated the tension between the metal structure and the plaster skin, and the piece imploded immediately after the award ceremony. Yet there is also a picture that shows Peralta Ramos destroying the piece himself. Either way, the work was too large to be moved as it was made inside the gallery space, and was always fated for destruction.

I am also keen to draw out correlations between those conditions of artistic production and consumption and the chaos of everyday life in process — in the street, on a construction site or in the domestic realm. Humans are hard-wired to manipulate materiality: We are devoted to constructing, acquiring, rearranging, deconstructing, recycling and disposing of stuff. Art is as much a byproduct of such urges — the urges that shape our entire material culture — as it is an elevated, freestanding activity. Photography now strikes me as the most direct way to talk about these relationships.

A bee's dance leads to far reaching speculations on content in the artwork of the naked ape.

Challenging eyes and the serious face expression let perceive the fighter is ready to face the adversity. The Artist rather meant to represent a pragmatic standing-by position suspended between two moods: a concious and cold wait opposed to the passionate momentum towards the action.

For an exhibition in late 1993/early 1994 at a gallery in Zagreb, Kožarić moved the contents of his entire studio into the gallery, where he lived and worked for the exhibition period. This studio was presented at Documenta 11 in 2002. Since 2007, when the City of Zagreb acquired the work and bequeathed it to the local museum of contemporary art, Kožarić has initiated several transformations of the space, which contains approximately 6,000 works. About 360 works from the Kožarić studio will be presented in the exhibition, supplemented by loans from major public and private collections.

Bolduc's art re-asserted a strong figure-ground relationship of a hovering main motif articulated in bold impasto colours squeezed and drawn directly from the tube atop a stained background. Bolduc extended the modernist dialogue championed by Jack Bush, Robert Motherwell and Jules Olitski triumphantly showcased first by the David Mirvish Gallery and subsequently Klonaridis Gallery. In so doing, Bolduc became the locus of the evolution of a tendency strongly associated with a generation of Toronto painters referred to variously under the rubric: exotic or eccentric modernism. /Marcus Garvey/, (collection of the Art Gallery of Ontario), is reflective of a career-long obsession with colour, pattern and collage references. For all its modernity, its compositional form harkens to antiquarian appearances gleaned from time spent among libraries of rare, hand-stamped leather book covers and decorated bookplates. His sensitivity to this history prepared him to be the contributor of exquisite illustrations to a number of hand-made books and accompaniments to finely-crafted literary publications.

It's a comment we often hear from people. It not only speaks volumes about the nature of working and community life in our society but it also addresses how people see themselves and what the dominant culture has done to that perception. We work with unions and communities as part of a larger collective process to change those perceptions. Our working relationship is based on a collaborative process mediated through the union movement or community group.

Named after Elem Klimov's 1985 film, /Come and See/ provides an opportunity to behold an impressive array of works by these prolific artists. Above all, however, it is an invitation to keep our eyes open, to bear witness, to question and, perhaps, even to delight.

Following art school, I struggled to find a process of art making that could distinguish me. I wanted to make art that reflected my interests and personality. Intrigued by a painting by Philip Taaffe that consists of a simple 1:1 ratio of two contrasting colours, the contrast of colour acting to elevate the surface wave pattern from the background colour, inspired me to experiment with this concept, utilizing cardboard templates of various shapes. At the same time, my interest in fibre arts led to employment as a hand weaver for a coat manufacturer, allowing the loopy line motif in my paintings to be solidly referenced by my employment. Using yarn from the shelves at work as a guide from which to mix colour, further refined the connection between daily life and making art. As I continue to reconfigure shape, pattern and colour placement, this palette of 32 colours has come to characterize the Abstract Repeat series of paintings, the result being the completion of over100 works.

*_Filipa César—Joint Leopard Dot_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/joint-leopard-dot/> Then Harun told me how he was interested in the deviations of meaning and the polysemic nature of words. He said that if he were to choose another occupation, he would be an etymologist.

I am looking for ways to speak and to listen. My projects are varied in their material composition (photo installations, multi-media performances), and a recurring theme is the representation of my struggle to speak and to hear the expressions of others. A good exchange can be a transformative experience. It is a simple idea, but not easy to achieve. We put many barriers in front of this simple act, and I like to look at those barriers.

and runs until October 23 at the Cheonggyecheon Plaza in Seoul, Korea. This cooperative exhibit aims to capture the dynamic and shifting spirit of Seoul where all three museums are located. Cheonggyecheon Project is the first part of the /Museum Link/ Exhibition by the three museums after which follows three exhibits by the respective participating museums. The exhibit emphasizes difference and diversity by accepting the museums' distinct voices rather than trying to show their commonality in a single exhibit.

The exhibition includes two autonomous original projects that are presented for the first time worldwide in Athens. In the specific projects of the two artists, the well known Cypriot singer Alexia collaborates and participates multi-dimensionally (composition, singing, and acting). The exhibition is curated by the art theorist Dr. Sania Papa.

I call this culture driven by nationalistic spectacles and the denial of historical facts "pornographic fascism." It is based on a dynamic of revealing and hiding, of exhibitionism and denialism: revealing private life (of the imperial family), one's own dying body (in media spectacle), and the graphic language of racism, while hiding the dirty secrets of history. Pornographic fascism is driven by the desire to perform martyrdom for the homogenized territory of the mass media.

In these works, Jacobs explores themes of memory, loss, distance, and displacement; she probes notions of language, dislocation, and retrieval. These are issues relevant to anyone aware of the passage of time and to anyone concerned with the particulars of personal identity, but they have special resonance for anyone whose life has been disrupted by change and relocation – experiences common to many Canadians, these days. That these themes are filtered through a female consciousness makes them, in my view, all the more arresting.

In this project the artist invited Alexia in a conversation-action that combines fragmented speech, singing, movement and improvisation, elements that cause new "abstractive" situations in a shifted "other" space-time, with an interactive catalytic character of the release of primal characteristics and behaviors. The work records the triadic projective relationship of intellectual, natural and architectural space of the individual (individual space, emotional space, work space, space of the Museum), the white internal room (white cube) in relation to the space of the dictator/master.

For this web site I have included work mostly from four one-person shows; /Fighters and Lovers/, 1982, /Man Makes Himself/, 1985, /MOVE/, 1985 and /The 1997 Manitoba Flood/, 2002. I have also included small grouping of pieces from other shows.

Via the active participation of individuals, institutions, non-governmental organisations and other actors within the local and international artistic, cultural and activist scene, the 52nd October Salon will provide a lively place for the exchanging of knowledge and a forum for dealing with issues pertaining to the complex positions of both the individual and the collective. The complex relations between societies, understanding, observance and protection of universal human values, personal responsibility—all of these are necessary elements for re-examinating the political part of our lives. *Galit Eilat* (IL/NL) is a writer, theorist, curator and one of the founders of the Israeli Centre for Digital Art, Holon. She is one of the editors-in-chief of /Maraav/, an Internet magazine for art and culture, and is currently working as a research curator at the Van Abbemuseum in Eindhoven (NL). Her projects often deal with the political situation in the Middle East, the themes of activism, (responsibility) and political imagination.

Uncategorized

*The Centre for Contemporary Canadian Art* *The Canadian Art Database: *Canadian Artists Files

Also intriguing are the correspondences that arise when walldrawings and animations are confronted in a same place: the drawings line up along the walls, the films follow each other in a loop. And the result is an energy that challenges the often narrow definitions of drawing and its potential for experiment.

As a newly minted Lacanian feminist, I hoped that I was reclaiming both subject positions; on one hand I was trying to invest the female nude with erotic potential that might be more complex, and on the other I was trying to inhabit the role of the male protagonist.

The original thought, now dead
Luckily, this Magnetawan paradise is still available to me, and each spring I disappear into it, wanting to be swallowed up by its dense greenery and crashing rapids, to feel the look of it again. It has become a touchstone, a /tool/ by which, in my travels elsewhere, I am able to measure and evaluate. I know the Mediterranean light in comparison to the Magnetawan light. The impenetrable Pre-Cambrian rock underfoot allows me a deeper insight into the nature of the mountains of Guatemala and the Andes of Peru. I have a greater sense of the tropical vegetation of India and Nepal because of my familiarity with the birch bark and trillium of Ontario.

I am aware of the ‘Women of the Shadows' metaphor threading through lesbian pulp novels to contemporary analysis of lesbian literature, for example, Terry Castle's /The Apparitional Lesbian/. The photographs play on this metaphor along with the history of criminal and sexual danger sited in urban alleyways, i.e., Thomas Annan's photographs of Glasgow alleys, Jacob Rii's photos of criminal gangs in NYC, Brassai's /‘The Secret Paris of the 30's/, etc.

Using a provocative character, the Artist represents a naive idea of femininity as a captivating side of the women's universe.

My last African installation, 'Cannibal Communicator: The Congo Holocaust', was a motorized mouthpart sculpture with audio relating the history of the Congo from when HM Stanley explored the Congo River to the excesses of King Leopold who was extracting wild rubber as a tax. A cavernous ribcage supports light-boxes with images taken by the missionaries at the time of the atrocities committed by Leopold's Cannibal army. The soundtrack uses a confessional aesthetic.

The exhibition presents six scenarios, each introducing a unique concept that explores cultural trends from an individual as well as a collective point of view, in a local and global perspective.

When I started this project I was teaching a painting seminar about the Death of Painting.

Textual material is used in a variety of ways in Stewart's work. Some texts are composed and set in type by the artist. Others are combined from disparate existing sources and then set into type. Most often the appropriated texts are edited or rearranged; their meaning shifted to suit their new setting both in terms of meaning and of their formal qualities. Texts are sometimes taken directly from printed sources (reproduced in the source's typesetting) as are the charts, graphs, technical and scientific diagrams and drawings that also appear in these works. Entire pages are sometimes lifted wholesale and used unaltered.

Beginning to tell the story of Sigma Festival in Bordeaux is as impossible as trying to make an exhaustive list of the events organised between 1965 and 1996, unless one possesses an overwhelming taste for the most extravagant associations—indeed, what could be more far removed, and even contradictory, in its most fecund acceptation, than *Karlheinz Stockhausen* and *Soft Machine*, *Nicolas Schöffer* and *Ben Vautier*, *Sankaï Juku* and kinetic art, *Lucinda Childs*, *Philip Glass* and *John Vaccaro's /Play-House of Ridiculous/*, *Jan Fabre*, the Living Theatre and the *Performance Group*, *Sun Ra* and *his phrase? This is the issue at play in this unprecedented collaborative project between a museum dedicated to contemporary artistic creation and two institutions that retain the written, drawn, photographed, and filmed sources of our collective memory.

My clocks have been in the making for more then 30 years. They are an expression of my dissatisfaction with the traditional clock face as well as all of the notions behind that face.

La démarche de Janet Logan repose sur la prémisse suivante : la recherche identitaire et la mémoire. Pour y parvenir, il lui faut retourner dans le passé, mais cela signifie nécessairement façonner, interpréter et inventer son passé. Les titres de quelques-unes de ses expositions solo sont d'ailleurs révélateurs de ses préoccupations, /Mémoires et rêves, Sucrerie et conte de fées, Mythes, mémoires et réalités/, ainsi que le titre de certaines de ses œuvres, tel /Elle a été élevée dans du coton/. Qui est donc Janet Logan? Une femme, féiniste, dessinatrice de costume pour le théâtre, peintre, artiste en art visuel (installations), traductrice, une anglophone qui évolue dans un milieu francophone, sans parler de ses traits de caract�re propres qui ne sont pas l'objet de notre réflexion, mais qui sont partie intégrante de son identité.

I am the smallest of things, Kosher to the touch. The most heroic of rodent, The wildest of horsetail, 	Most mortal of gods.

But a form of care that is bountiful and not subject to any measurement is also not infinite. It may be absolute in its commitment, but it is not infinite in its capacity. If we look at what is happening to family relations at the moment, we may start to see the place where the
Before banks, before currency, valuable things were placed in circulation as lines of credit whose ultimate end was to return to the sender having accumulated surplus value. In short, participants gave in order to increase their holdings, but this interested act created something more than the interested rational subject-it created moral obligations and social worlds.

/*A New Way of Seeing*/ The reason to develop a new way of seeing is to alter our effect on the environment. Instead of seeing a tree we need to see the larger organism. Boundaries must be relinquished so that environment merges with self. The San provide an example of a culture that achieves this. It seems to me that the Western notion of the individual is really just a paradigm and that creative endeavour could reinvent the persona and by extension, the society. If the 'environment' were contained within the idea of the 'self' perhaps we would pay more attention to it and devise better structures of governance.

From the catalogue for Rayner's /Retrospective/ at The Robert McLaughlin Gallery, Oshawa, January 10 - February 21, 1979.

Sir Kenneth Clark concluded his popular /Civilization/ TV series in 1969 with this famous, darkly prophetic poem. Yet, these same ominous words could be evoked to describe the sense of chaos we experience today. At the dawn of the 21th century our world is increasingly permeated by a profound sense of intellectual and spiritual anxiety in the face of exploding technologies and constant social, political, and economic change. Tribalism, AIDS, famine, surging nationalism, ethnic cleansing, religious fanaticism and war as television entertainment have replaced the promised 'peace dividend' in the wake of communist collapse. The New World Order has not emerged. The centre lacks cohesive focus.

In /Zip-locks/, I collected an ‘artifact' each day for one year from January 1 to December 31, 2000, and placed it with a tag in a zip-lock bag. The rules were the object had to cross my path on the day indicated on the tag and had to fit in the bag. The collection of 365 zip-locks documents the first year of the 21st century through material culture of the everyday. I spent part of that year in Italy where I began an accompanying series of small watercolours. /Italian Artifacts/ juxtaposes Etruscan artifacts, coats of arms, and flora and fauna with tiny collage elements from contemporary (tourist) culture. Some of these ‘artifacts' ended up in the zip-lock bags.

    James D. Campbell, "Concerning Constructive Strategies" from the     catalogue to the exhibition /Abstract Practices/, The Power Plant,     (March 1991).

The Artist represents a robot woman sitting and absorbed in her thoughts; she's observed by her own eyes appearing through the sinuous movement of her tail. The Lady sits confused and tired, like taking a rest from a fast and aggressive society which doesn't give time to focus on herself.

I titled the work –*Penetrating the Cit*y – in part, in response to the myth that lesbian sex is primarily, if not exclusively, oral sex. Lesbians are the only population for whom AIDS education safe sex has concentrated on the use of dental dams. Additionally, the work is a homage to Montreal the city and to Montreal photography. I pay tribute to the Montreal (neo Pictorialist) photo aesthetic while also slyly inserting lesbian sex into these romantic cityscapes.

Sestriere, in the Italian alps, has a unique topography that will allow the six new projects to take advantage of the varied settings, providing different levels for vantage and entrance points for each of the projects. As the event coincides with the Winter Olympics, the participants have taken into account the implications of sport and incorporated it into their design, bringing architecture and contemporary art to an international and mainstream audience of millions.

I work with relations such as flatness/depth; part/whole; difference/repetition; static/dynamic; permanent/provisional, so as to enact a systematic, yet open and suggestive, treatment of pictorial space. At the root of my approach is a concern to broaden the scope of what is normally considered to be a purely formalist school of painting. Using pattern not only for its aesthetic, rhythmic qualities I wish to hint at its connections to informatics, by which I mean not only its cultural potential as semiotic content but also its socio-political ramifications vis a vis certain readings of techno-science, post-humanism and embodiment (e.g. Donna Haraway, Katherine Hayles, Elizabeth Grosz, Rosi Braidotti). As well, I wish to implicate what I see as a promising overlap between the dynamics enabled by these constructs and those of various representations of 'natural' processes made by people working in such fields as self-organization, genetics and cognitive science. Intrigued by the limited means of the more minimalist branches of modernism, but discontent with their restricted ends, I want, in my work, to propose a multi-valent, non-determinist, deterritorialized space - a decentralized permutational network in which I picture contextually linked, multi-tasking, co-adaptive agents; adept at plugging-in to difference, constantly forming assemblages with the other, and ever open to the prospect of new becomings.

The search for the ‘perfect' provided the philosophical framework within which Byars conceived his many artworks, events and performances. His sculptures comprise simple and elemental geometric shapes: spheres, cylinders, cubes and cones, all made to his exacting standards in the finest glass, granite, marble, gold leaf and even red roses.

New York artist Joe Coleman views murder as a service to humanity, and serial killers as merciful individuals who fulfill the important role of ridding the world of overpopulation. He sees gun violence as service to the community and has celebrated murderers like Charles Manson, Ed Gain (the inspiration for Leatherface and Hannibal Lecter) and John Wayne Gayce in many of his paintings. In Coleman's Malthus-inspired philosophy, this is not the time for birth, but a time for death.  "There is much hate right now in the world, because nature at this point wants to encourage warfare." Nature wants humanity to exterminate itself, and those of us who murder others should be viewed as heroes, not pariahs.

Marman and Borins have shown work both in Canada and internationally, including exhibitions at Art Santa Fe, the University of Toronto, the Toronto International Art Fair, and the Scope Art Fair in Miami. Most recently they have been awarded a commission for the Toronto Sculpture Garden to debut in 2006. Marman and Borins have shown video works widely on an international level.

While I use a variety of materials and processes in each project my methodology is consistent. Although there may not always be material similarities between the different projects they are linked by recurring formal concerns and through the subject matter. The subject matter of each body of work determines the materials and the forms of the work.

Superfluity is a prerequisite if Dahlgrens painterly abstract strategy is to work. In /Colour reading and contexture/ (2005), it is the absurd amount of materials which creates the concentration and compactness that make the work so visually captivating, sensual and interesting in terms of its form. Katarina Löfström works with animated videos which relate to painting, and, in her later works, also to drawing. In her works she combines the representative and the everyday with the abstract. /Hang Ten Sunset/ (2000), one of the two works shown at Malmö Konsthall, undeniably bears the legacy of modernisms colour field painting. But Löfström also plays with another kind of culture. Aided by its title, the work recalls the flashy decade of the 1980s a surfer society clothed in horizontally striped T-shirts on a beach in front of a kitschy sunset. Combining in this way aspects of popular culture with art history and purely visual, sometimes hypnotic qualities is typical of her work. In An Island (2004), the starting point is in fact the Stockholm amusement park Gröna Lund in real life characterised by stress, hubbub and noise but which in Löfströms work has instead a meditative calm. But what is interesting in view of these thoughts and ideas are not the references themselves the playing with history, the praise (or criticism) but rather the fact that her impure (and not even completely non-figurative) works in a way achieve what so many of modernisms abstract painters, through their purism, tried to achieve but better. Liberated from history, theory and the romanticisation of Art, she embodies their dream of narratives in an abstract language of colour and form, free to directly express mystical, spiritual forces and emotions. Katarina Löfström succeeds in transforming the obscure into something clear, without thereby making it possible to explain in words.

Since 1998 my artwork has encompassed themes of sameness and lack of autonomy in consumer culture, typically viewed metaphorically through the subdivision vernacular.

Les diagrammes techniques et illustrations schématiques détachés de leurs sources, " édités " et dépouillés de leur sens original peut être apparenté à du dessin pur ou peut prendre des qualités obscures, mystérieuses ou même gnostiques. Il règne ainsi une conscience de la mutabilité des signes. L'ambiguïté des valeurs symboliques des référents est exploitée par leur réarrangement dans le cadre de l'œuvre. Dans ces œuvres, l'ambivalence et la distorsion des signes est donnée plutôt que critiquée, elle se remarque au passage et est utilisée pour construire la proposition ou le thème de l'œuvre.

In the practice of my art, I try to stage the way we perceive and build the "real" by casting our desires into it, how with our psyche we transgress reality through the fabrication of the marvellous. The core of my work rests principally on subjective experiences and refers to imaginary spaces, to the exotic, to romantic desires and to whimsical fancies. Like the experiences of illusions and disillusions strewn through our lives, my work strives to oscillate between the pleasure of the aesthetic illusion and its unavoidable breakdown, between an idealized vision and banality. My work recalls the vulnerability of humankind, faced with the inevitable discrepancy between our desires and reality.

The second issue of "Architecture as Intangible Infrastructure" will be released in September 2015 with essays and contributions from Beatriz Colomina, Bernard Khoury, Hu Fang, Ingo Niermann and Rem Koolhaas, Hans Ulrich Obrist in conversation with Hans Hollein, and others.

Colour also functions as a factual component. One colour is equal in importance to the other. Colour is chosen intuitively by weight and presence and not necessarily by its coded, commercial, or representational properties. Mapping the colour to give the paintings its own oneness. Making clear the colour's intentions.

*Itziar Okariz* shows a new installation entitled /*Ghost Box */produced specifically for *sala rekalde*. The installation comprises various sound and film captures recorded during a series of actions carried out by the artist in the Killarney lakes, a natural park in the south of County Kerry in the west of Ireland. This area is noted for its remarkable topography, since it consists of a chain of rocky mountains and three lakes. This is a natural enclave where some of the most extraordinary echoes in the world can be heard.

*_Ute Holl—Farocki's Cinematic Historiography: Reconstructing the Visible_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/farockis-cinematic-historiography-reconstructing-the-visible/> Extremely well acquainted with historical and contemporary systems of thought, Farocki has written on historical materialism, semiotics, and structuralism, but has defied all of them in filmic discourse.

In the project, /Estas Ruinas que ves/, Mariana Castillo Deball examines Mexicos complex relationship with its past through her documentary investigation of contemporary archeological practices. /Estas Ruinas que ves/ examines the context of archaeology and the life of archeological artifacts, exploring how they are presented and animated in varied contexts, and how they are interpreted and defined. Her installation consists of three components: an archive displaying her photography, a museum setting devoid of objects, and a publication that ties all these elements together. Consisting of two separate publications: one in English and the other in Spanish, /Translated Catalogue and // y Catálogo traducido examines the intricacies of art and the subject of translation. The artist Carla Zaccagnini creates publications that are works of art in-and-of themselvesblurring the line between visual arts and literatureas they contain images of artwork and essays relating to the images themselves. These catalogues are distributed to the audience in order to establish a more intimate, prolonged experience with the work. The Holy Artwork

Kožarić has always kept the character of his works open. He reworks earlier pieces, reprocesses earlier ideas, and intentionally dates works inaccurately or incorrectly. To do justice to this openness, the exhibition is organized according to thematic connections within his work, rather than to chronology, style, or development.

short documentary video
An alternative economy would have to seek a language that does not just name a different economic process, but names different psychic energies amidst the prediction of gloom that normally accompanies the retreat of capital from all forms of life, including creative life. And yet it remains important to maintain that the mere presence of healthy public institutions does not guarantee a richer cultural life, just as their absence does not necessitate a poverty of cultural life.

Much of my work has been and continues to be devoted to social commentary. In 1983 I exhibited a series of paintings of angels in downtown Toronto and West Berlin clubs, at the 49th Parallel, New York, curated by the late Carmen Lamanna. It was titled /Commentary '92-'93/, and included Joanne Tod, John Brown and Marc Deguerre. I continued this work seen at the /Toronto Painting '84/ exhibition at the Art Gallery of Ontario. The most recent exhibition in this vein was titled /Bambino Miracolo /in collaboration with Paul Petro Comtemporary Art, Toronto, May '95.

The local oaks in High Park and trees seen when camping and hiking were my muse for four years. My goal was to eliminate the horizon line and focus on the textures of spaces between the tree trunks.

The "Itjanayo" (Korean "Itjanayo," meaning "well," "um," "see," or "by the way") project by architect and artist Soo-in Yang will be set in the Cheonggyecheon Plaza, an old-new space that has been reinvented and renewed in many iterations much like Seoul itself. Installed in front of Claes Oldenburg's /Spring, Itjanayo/ is a box of mirrors seen from the outside, but becomes a viewing and recording box from the inside, when people enter into the box and start to state their opinions. Throughout history, a plaza has been a place for airing statements of opinion, historical statements are limited by time and forgetfulness, but the statements inside /Itjanayo/ are recorded and replayed for others to hear. Others who subsequently enter the box can add responses to the earlier statements as though they were adding online comments.

Did you ever feel like an old bag in front of a work of art?
These pieces have been developed using computer programs, which enable the artist to manipulate and re-contextualize images from nature. The original images of seedpods, fungus, flowerheads, were transformed and then made in black and colorless materials such as casting resin, vinyl, and fiberglass. Although the works begin with forms from nature, because of computer manipulation of the original images and the use of highly processed materials, these become strange hybrids, artificial forms which retain vestiges of their origin in nature.

  	1. Platinum prints have to be made from full-sized, perfect photographic negatives, contact printed on specially prepared hand-coated paper. Unlike ordinary silver photography, in which the print is customarily "dodged" and "burned", in platinum printing no manipulation of the image is possible after the negative is made. If the artist fails "to get it right the first time", he will waste tens of hours of labor, and hundreds of dollars in materials, since any faults are ruthlessly revealed.

life, landscapes, as well as natural and human phenomena. James Benning's role is that of eye-witness. His observations would seem almost documentary-like were it not for the mathematical precision that becomes clear when we examine his films. The image detail—mostly from a central perspective—is always perfectly balanced, the play between image and soundtrack is exact, the motive captured at the right moment by the camera.

The central theme of the sculptures from the 1950s is the human figure, of which there are numerous depictions including torsos, heads, and portraits. At the same time, Kožarić also experimented with abstract shapes and ideas, which were to become more important in later years in pieces like /Osjećaj cjeline/ (Feeling of Wholeness, 1953/54). In his work, Kožarić intuitively challenged the distinctions between the figurative and the abstract rejceting the necessity of any exclusive determination.

After graduating from Ontario College of Art in 1989 I was fortunate to participate in artistic endeavours presented by the artist collective Painting Disorders. My work has been included in many group and solo exhibitions, from artist run initiatives to public and private galleries including Art Gallery of Ontario, Power Plant (Toronto), Contemporary Art Gallery (Vancouver), Edmonton Art Gallery and Albright-Knox Art Gallery (Buffalo). My work is represented by Wynick/Tuck Gallery in Toronto.

During the last 20 years my work has been a personal journey exploring my strong and passionate affinity for the still life. For me, nature embodies both a spiritual and physical expression of the extraordinary and commonplace.

In summary, research into biotechnology and the use of compute applications led to a dystopian scenario rather than an utopian vision-a body of work centered on the question of, "What if all the color leaked out of nature?", leaving it colorless and black. Could this really happen? Probably not, but the work is intended to call attention to the experience of a natural world that is being indelibly altered by many different kinds of human intervention, especially the genetic modification of plants and animals. The boundaries between nature and culture become blurred as we remake nature from the inside out and the tempo of intervention accelerates.

deconstruct the idea of Dada as a style and so in effect de-Dadaise Dada. After a research in the Dada archives of the Kunsthaus in Zurich, the artists came to the conclusion that Dada can never be rectified. The only thing that can be done today is to either illustrate Dada or de-Dadaise it, meaning that all the elements contained in the Dada ideal would have to be put back together again. Hence the Brothers have left Dada with a headache. They have created a tilt situation that leads towards the death of Dada through an act of hyper-affirmation that extinguishes both our Dadaist past and Dadaist present. In effect the Brothers fight fire with fire.

It asks about oral histories, cracks in memories, abandoned visions and desolated heroes. Dockwatchers addresses the person, the individual, caught up in political and historical processes, whose personal memory is inscribed in collective experiences, the official representations of history and various forms of commemoration and mythologisation.If I Cant Dance is not trying to sum up a contemporary feminist art or to collate an aesthetic for feminism, but rather to explore how feminist thinking on all levels (social, artistic, political, theoretical, ideological or structural) may be important in our cultural life. There is currently a rich artistic discourse, which taps into this legacy and manifests itself in the materiality and language of visual art, but also interrogates how artists choose to perform themselves and their work within the dominant visual economy. The project aims to explore these tendencies as inquisitively and openly as possible.

Automobiles & Methods of Logic Banking and Erotica Bookkeeping and the Cosmos Canada and First Nations Christianity, Gender & The Wild Kingdom The CIA Mountain Crochet and Artificial Intelligence Darwin & the Mafia The Development of Meaning The Ethics of Krupp Fish and the Stock Market First Nations and the Atlas Federalism and Needlework Fertility and Motherhood Film & TV Game Shows Genetics & Cricket J.F.K & Imperialism A History of Art & The Church (2 Volumes) Hymns and Steel Home Decoration and Sexology Knowledge (22 Volumes) Larousse Medical (2 Volumes) L.B.J. & The Great New Society Locomotives & Christianity Lord Protector Management, WWII, and the Body Microeconomics Planet Moon Practical Yoga and Desire Psychology & Aircraft Real Estate and WWI Recipes for Success R.M. Nixon & Communism Steel Making and Celebrities Thermodynamics and Pro Football Trivia and World Records U.S.S.R Vietnam Wages, Gambling & Exercise
Time cannot be constrained by merely mechanical devices. While it represents one way of looking at the world, I hope my clocks allow another.

throughout his 30-year career, highlighting the artist's formal and technical innovations. The exhibition includes the flamboyantly baroque /Don Quijote Segunda Parte/, a sculpture in the polychromatic anodized aluminum technique pioneered by the artist; his colorful /Maids of Honor/, a groundbreaking painting on rubber curtains; and his early encaustic wire mesh paintings.

//The Virtual Library// is an installation of hand-made book works that offers a satirical reflection on the current status of "The Book" in western culture. The advent of virtual worlds of information has brought about a number of changes to the social and cultural practices that sustain the nature of book-based knowledge. For one, the relationship of the reader to the text has changed. So too have the material means through which the authority of the text is achieved. In fact the structures of a broad spectrum of processes, institutions and industries built upon the physical transmission and representation of knowledge have been affected by a technologically expanded information universe. In form and content, /The Virtual Library/ promotes reflection on the historical processes that underpin these transformations.

Blue for clarity (and yet it is almost completely opaque…) circuitry web tangle branch system; leave them all behind for heaven

**_Thomas Elsaesser in conversation with Alexander Alberro—Farocki: A Frame for the No Longer Visible_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/farocki-a-frame-for-the-no-longer-visible-thomas-elsaesser-in-conversation-with-alexander-alberro/> *Just as hackers and Apple might well end up living in a symbiotic relationship—as host-and-parasite, rather than as outright foes—Farocki realized that a system can use its opponents as a way to self-regulate and stabilize itself.

My painting can be seen as two streams of inquiry which ultimately seek to discover the same thing. The landscape paintings, which I have been making since the mid-1970s, seek to reveal my emerging understanding of the non-duality of nature. These works have gone through a range of artistic treatments, with the 1990s seeing a focus on space, light, atmosphere and distance.

Between 1954 and 1958 Tony Urquhart was trained at the Albright Art School, a division of the fine art department of the State University of New York at Buffalo, and at Yale University. In 1960 he became the University of Western Ontario's first artist-in-residence, after which he taught in the art department, before moving on to the University of Waterloo. He became full professor of Fine Art there in 1972, teaching drawing and painting as well as serving periodically as the head of the department. His studio and home are in nearby Wellesley where he lives with his poet/novelist wife, Jane.

Boxes as skulls

2. The photographer must prepare the platinum printing paper. He selests among two or three of the finest papers in the world. The choice is an important decision. The beautiful subliminal qualities of the paper will become intrinsic with the image. Any invisible impurities cause unpredictable results. The paper must be absolutely pure, consistent in quality-and perhaps, considering the expense of the platinum salts, no too thirsty!

In video I am interested in absurd juxtapositions in popular and official American culture such as Charlton Hestons' appointment as President and spokesperson of the National Rifle Association; the language of U.S. Alien documentation; and my physical resemblance to a younger Meryl Streep. I am becoming increasingly interested in the cult of celebrity, and the desire that propels extreme fandom. My latest work is an ongoing conceptual project of which the object of my affection, actor Billy Bob Thornton, is the subject.

*_Ahmet Öğüt—CCC: Currency of Collective Consciousness_*

My GPS patterns combine a scientific approach of collecting data and representing it as scientific evidence and I have been collecting all my GPS data now since July 2005. A track is defined as an event and I might have several tracks a say if I go for a walk, a drive and a bus ride. Some lines are combined and for others I separate them into different tracks for a drive + a walk at the end of it. This is where I can control that the viewer will not necessarily know everything I do or when I do it and I can shape the visual elements. Different modes of locomotion come with different scales, speeds, rhythms and shapes. On a recent trip in Italy I drove over a mountain pass with winding hairline turns only to arrive at a resort town hopelessly lost, driving around blocks and one-way streets to locate my hotel. Some tracks repeat very often, i.e. my drives to work or my runs in the neighbourhood, others are seasonal and some are caused by imposed changes, that might be pleasant or not.

Includes the use of the "loop," narrative structures, sculptural installations/environments, and dialogues with complementary two-dimensional works. The New Genres Department at the San Francisco Art Institute has been a pioneer in performance, moving image, and installation, and a breeding ground for work at the intersection of the three mediums. This is a remarkable work being shown here for the first time in Canada. It is a reinterpretation of the twelve bronze animal heads, representing the traditional Chinese zodiac, that used to adorn the famous water clock at the imperial gardens of Yuanming Yuan in Beijing.

At the 53rd International Art Exhibition – La Biennale di Venezia *Chile will be represented by the work of artist Iván Navarro.*

Recently I have been re-investigating the notion of illusion in painting. In mathematics it would be referred to as the �Z' axis (if X is width and Y is height then Z is depth, the diagonal). Having painted without referential images for a number of years now, I have seen the work become flatter and more opaque. The empirical notion of the painting as an object first and foremost was the central condition. But this train of thought led to an endgame and I needed a way to break out beyond that.

capitalism encourages images that project what will inevitably be left in its wake: a dead world. And just as one can imagine (or see) patches of devastated and desolate land, a kind of localized post-extraction desertification, one can just as easily imagine this becoming a planetary condition: the globe as a rotating, dead lithosphere, coated in a fine dust of decomposing once-organic particles.

A reaction to the many associations made by those representing the 'art-world'. Levy attempts to render his work distinctive or devoid of art-historical reference-points. A purist in his approach to art-making, he reduces his sculpture to an elemental form; a derivation from a complex image to a near-skeletal remnant. Linda Genereux commented on Levy's ability to remove himself from art-historical associations while upholding the ability to provoke a variety of appropriations and interpretations by stating that, "Evan walks on both sides of the fence, disenfranchising the power of formalist abstraction while embracing the ability to proliferate a multiplicity of suggestions rather than one specific meaning." While Levy draws influence from externals, he states that his work is also prompted by strong internal forces: "images come in flashes, but capturing them requires effort and pondering - a subconscious process."

In 1980, the Feminine Principle, in the guise of the Virgin and the Mother-Goddess, surfaces in my paintings. I had been studying the writing of Carl Jung and Eric Neuman since 1976 and was aware of the recurring Archetypes in the historical religions of the world since the Paleolithic "Venuses". I exhibited a series of paintings depicting mainly the Christian Virgin in contemporary environments at Mercer Union titled /Madonna/ in 1981.

During photography's "golden age", at the turn of the century and into the 1900's, the platinum print was a dominant medium. If you were a serious photographer, you did your work on platinum paper. But suddenly it was unavailable because of the World War: platinum was strategic, and Russia had most of the world's supply.

*_Andreas Siekmann and Alice Cresicher—How to Wear a Scissor-Wielding Trifecta on a T-Shirt_* The photo below shows Harun wearing the scissor-wielding trifecta on a T-shirt, after the Goethe Institute in Lisbon refused to print the icon on their press release.

re:austria was formed as a response to the dramatic political changes in Austria, with the goal to keep a constructive and active discussion etc., alive and going in the next few years, by organizing demonstrations, panels, and events.     other forms of contemporary art are indeed possible. It is testimony to the creative power of artists for whom painting, filming, drawing, and sculpting are a way of understanding and experiencing the world.

With the advent of Google, Wikipedia and the global embrace of an easy-share, watered-down aesthetic in everything from architecture to graphic design, so-called innovations to connect the world and make it seem smaller also raise the question of what constitutes "collective memory." Artists are often early barometers of change, and an interest in archiving and reclaiming one's own history has recently become a prominent topic. By unearthing overlooked themes in the art of the

Painting

*1916* offers an historical reflection of the world at war. Comprising a series of paintings and etchings made 'after' photographs and posters from WWI, the project considers the individual contributions and collective ideologies that underwrite global conflict, then and now.

Object Black marks on a white surface. The marks have been isolated and meshed, ordered by human intelligence. The viewer reabsorbs the marks. An adjustment of focus is induced to accept the information. The object releases its amorphous tracings of the underworld into the eye of the viewer.

now than it was in the twentieth century. eBay, Craigslist, and Etsy have gutted thrift and antique stores across North America of all their good stuff, and in Paris, the Marché aux Puces de Saint-Ouen is but a shadow of its former self. eBay itself, once groaning with low-hanging fruit being sold by the clueless, is now a suburban shopping center with the occasional semi-okay vintage thingy still floating around. This same sense of sparseness is felt in the museum world, where the slashing of programming budgets remains the norm.

We found rusty implements, marvelous pieces of junk, where the loggers had passed through years before. We would make found-object sculptures, place them in the fields and deep in the bush, like silent, sacred totems, only to return the next year to find them crumpled, tilted and fallen. So we'd reconstruct them differently, giving them a new existence. Some are still there, rusting in the elements.

Unlike other printing techniques that can yield numerous copies of a single image, a monotype, as the name suggests, is one of a kind. After a monotype is committed to paper, a ghost image remains on the plate; a /cognate/ that can establish the starting ground for reworking the image in a second monotype and so on. The plate must necessarily be worked on quickly, while the paint is wet, and often more than a single monotype is produced at one sitting. A canvas arrives, over time, at a final resolution; a series of monotypes, on the other hand, can chart various stages of the painting process. This appeals to the modern sensibility that is concerned as much with the journey as the destination.

In performance, I am interested in engaging with audiences as a means of orchestrating everyday activities away from their usual context, where audiences are made up of willing participants who are not necessarily expecting art. With a base largely made up of strangers I have shampooed hair in a salon, offered free advice, played games on the sidewalk, transformed borrowed clothing, sewed protective messages into people's clothing seams, brought plants into homes, and borrowed favourite objects for a month.

Modern times have transformed the way ruins and monuments are approached and considered to the point where ruins became "contemporary ruins", closer to present than to past. "Contemporary ruins" are produced both by the acceleration of time and the growing fascination with deterioration. They test the very idea of a ruin within a system of objects structured by the invention of permanency. Good ruins do not illustrate or morally demonstrate this, but are able to re-reverse logics of time from science fiction to archaeology, from peplum to I-pod. Ruin lets off the very idea of theme because the ruin uses up any theme.

Tate Liverpool's summer 2015 season presents three artists whose practices interrogate the relationship between context and form, balancing between abstraction and codified signs. Reflecting different eras and locations, from perspectives both East and West, the season examines artistic, social and cultural developments occurring in the post-war period.  his life seeking to justify its implications. Fearing creative stagnation, he also sought to reconfigure the celebrated abstract expressionist style of painting he had pioneered. /Jackson Pollock: Blind Spots/ explores these developments, tracing the departure, in 1951, from his famed drip technique. Beginning with works made during the classic drip period, the exhibition explores this much-debated transition, which resulted in a period in which Pollock would produce works that came to be known as black pourings, or black paintings. Figurative, near calligraphic and rendered almost exclusively in black, art historian Michael Fried believed them to be of "virtually limitless potential." Revealing the "blind spots" within an extensive and expansive practice, the exhibition juxtaposes key phases of Pollock's career, and includes lesser-known works—spanning drawing, printmaking and sculpture—to provide new insights into this pivotal figure's contribution to and lasting effect on modern and contemporary art. 

Influenced by native thought exploring my Celtic background I became aware of a common rhythm flowing through nature, the ancients, and earthmother

In 1953 I would occasionally be asked to work late in order to serve drinks to a strange and gregarious group of people who congregated in Jack Bush's office. They loved to yell and scream at each other. I actually saw one of them, Harold Town I think, rolling around on the floor with Oscar Cahen indulging in fake fisticuffs. They must have been having fun. /Pugilistic possums/. They were the Painters Eleven. Little did I know the historical significance of these formative gatherings. During this period, Jack was changing from naturalistic art to abstract art, which of course had an enormous effect on me. It was an extremely exciting time though I was full of doubts about it, and about totally abstract art in particular - it had never been seen in Toronto. Shortly thereafter I left and got a better job, on Jack's advice. He said, 'You're finished your apprenticeship here and now you've got to get out into the world and start making some money, and some art.' I got another job for something like thirty dollars a week doing lettering and silkscreen posters. The members of Painters Eleven never said much to me beyond, 'Get me another drink, will you boy!' They had the door closed. But I heard rumbles and mumbles as they wrote, wrestled with the group statement for their first exhibition announcement; and talked in a new exciting code, with words such as 'non-objective,' 'action-painting,' 'stream of conscious,' and 'abstract!' At that time Tom Hodgson was one of the youngest, most brilliant painters.

The second stream of my work began in the early 1990s as a result of my Brucebo award (a Swedish Award). This opportunity to spend a summer in Gotland living and working at the William Blair Bruce estate helped me to formulate a second approach to painting.

By the time I was fifteen, having flunked my first year in high school, my parents gave in. They took the position that art would at least give me a vocation. I loved art, I loved science, and I loved working in the carpentry and machine shops - all that satisfying uses of hands, putting it together, the building of things. As for my academic education, I continuously read and studied those subjects that obsessed me most.

Unlike most nature artists, I'm quite ignorant about the names of plants. It's something I don't need to know. To prevent myself from painting in a finicky style, I always paint the smallest possible detail with my largest possible brush. I'm happy that this business of painting allows me to shamelessly exploit nature, without having to destroy it. I'm left with the option, if not duty, to improve on it.

Her hyper-aesthetic collages quickly made Wangechi Mutu one of the most interesting figures on the young American scene. Matthew Evans met her in New York.

See me, Shining, in the sunlight And skulking about the property Doing what I do...

By 1987, I had abandoned narrative representation to work from the observation of nature. Studies from site were developed in the studio into a monumental scale. The resolution of the work depended on the viewer being visually engulfed by the paintings; to be "inside" the invented space. They were exhibited in 1988 and 1989 at the Carmen Lamanna Gallery and numerous public galleries. An excerpt from the statement written for the exhibitions � "�like listening to music."

The videos and performances render my loaded gestures the primary focus. They depict me testing the limits of my subjectivity by pushing gum in and out of my mouth, or digging in to my belly button as a futile quest for my essence. This work employs my bodily curves, orifices and excretions to investigate and represent my subjectivity in relation to sexuality, love, comfort and abuse. The theatre of confessions at the centre of my work constructs an illusion of intimacy with myself and invites you to examine my vulnerabilities and obsessions.

4. Dissolved in pure water the platinum and iron salts are the emulsion, which is hand-coated with a brush onto a sheet of paper. The paper is then dried. It is usually used immediately, so only a few pieces of prepared paper are made at a time. Throughout the process, the photographer is well advised to keep a detailed, exact record of every step-the paper used, the number of drops of the chemicals, the proportions of the mixtures, the humidity of the environment and the paper, etc.-so that errors are not repeated. Errors are frighteningly expensive and time-consuming! Even when all goes well, it is not uncommon for a platinum photographer to make between five and fifteen attempts, with various combinations, to achieve the first "perfect print" from a new negative.

Metaphorically, I see painting as being representative of the interior / emotional body, while the photography speaks of the exterior / physical body. The hand, as mediator to the act of painting, can be seen as a metaphor for the sensual body, while the traces of photography are the tools by which the conscious body finds expression in the outer world. By using photographs and by desiring to paint them, I am breathing life back into these images - I am giving back to memories of time and place the aura and mystery that has been lost in the photograph. My desire to paint my photography is actually a desire to authenticate or make unique a world that is fragmented and overexposed in the photographic image.

I am interested in exploring painting as a reductive process, wiping away parts of the original photographic image. The images begin as photographs transferred to mylar. I can then isolate and combine architectural and pictorial elements from different photographs on to one image. Familiar elements are then wiped away, replaced with a painted void. The final painting on mylar combines both photographic and painted image. One intrinsic quality of the photograph is that it stands as a record of a time and place. I am excited by the potential of how far this property can be erased before meaning collapses. Thus, my current body of work is larger in scale, moving away from the single point perspective into a less clearly defined pictorial space.

/The Tibetans/ is a portfolio of photographs from late 1995. For ten years I have documented threatened world cultures: the Tuaregs or Blue Men of the Sahara Desert, the Nubians in southern Egypt and the Maya in Chiapas, Mexico. Yet, I believe, in The Tibetans, I have assembled the photographs that best represent the spirit of an unsettled world culture.

Since her 2005 installation titled /Elle a �t� �lev�e dans du coton/, the use of white in her work refers to the death of someone close and to an Asian symbolism where white is associated with death and mourning. In Asia, death is seen as the inevitable passage to a new world, a rebirth, evoking purity.

But what are these levers? Or for that matter, how has architecture always given form to the immaterial or intangible spatial effects in communication pathways, or war, rubble, memory, tourism, and cultural capital? Hasn't architecture always provided a way of reading ethical transgressions in reverse, of giving them form, for better or for worse? How has physical architecture always been a symptom of ideology? How has it always been a communications infrastructure?
And yet some artists who might appear to be moving back to their mythical home to purify themselves might at the same time be permanently purging themselves of the lure of origin. In the cycles of decomposition and recomposition, others might push instead for the granting of statehood to synthetic subcultural milieux which for some reason attain a legitimate status alongside more historically situated tribes and peoples. A promised land of gamers and alcoholics, for instance. A continent for indebted MFAs, rich in coltan deposits and with its own stock market harvesting bitcoin. Finally, a place gay Bolsheviks can call their own.

Documentation of the dead, a pure act of null and void
The series Open House extends the No Fixed Address and Paint Palette series into the interior realm, by examining domestic suburban interior spaces. Although each interior differs more radically than the exteriors might suggest, it becomes apparent that the changes made to each space rely heavily on decoration and ornament. Thus all three bodies of work suggest an irony: How is it possible for a person's sense of autonomy and place to be described through mock-classical imitations, pastiche, paint, or ornaments that are themselves mass-produced, heavily marketed substitutes for true artisan practices?

Along with my installations, I have a sustained drawing practice. At the beginning simple drafts for future installations, my drawing gradually became an autonomous practice nourished with the same preoccupations as those of my installations. I make large drawings suggesting imaginary labyrinth-like landscapes in which the gaze is invited to lose itself. As in Italo Calvino's Invisible Cities wherein a tacit understanding between the narrator and the sultan allows the latter to take delight in an idealized version of his empire, these unreal spaces interest me because they render an idealized vision of the world, where desire and fabulous inventions triumph over reality and verisimilitude. I realize my drawings by accumulating and juxtaposing motifs in order to create artificial landscapes or fantastic cities where steep mountains, flying carpets, starry skies, volcanoes, castles or exotic palaces for instance, become recurrent figures.

In 1914, the Government of Canada first used the War Measures Act to unjustly intern 8,579 immigrant Canadians in 24 camps, one of which existed in Banff at the foot of Castle Mountain in summer and at the Cave and Basin Hot Springs in winter. Over 600 internees occupied the Castle Mountain/Banff camp between 1915 and 1917. The reasons for the camps were largely economic. Parks Canada wanted roads built to develop Banff's tourism frontier. Internees provided cheap labour at a time when Canada was at war in Europe. Parks Commissioner J. 'Bunny' Harkin devised a plan calculating the value of mountain scenery at $13.88 per acre, resalable many times. To develop Park lands for tourism, Canada needed paved roads to bring in new American cars. Internees built the Banff-Lake Louise highway, trails around Emerald Lake, roads and sidewalks in Banff, bridges, and more.

Where previous series of Labyrinth and Laurel explored a body scale relationship based upon the vessel- pierced and layered, unable to contain more than light - this new work /Maelstrom/ and /Aggregate/ series, challenges my own approach and perceptions in moving away from the vessel, exploring disorder in a complex stacking of abstract passageways.

Researching 1960s magazine interviews of Duchamp I came across a testimonial wherein Duchamp stated that he was more influenced by the writer Raymond Roussel (1877-1933) than modern painters. As an Art history student I noticed his literary and written approach – the ironies and meta ironies of language – was the work of an outsider, independent artist with an autonomous streak. And for most of his life, he had a studied disdain for, and avoided the artistic public. Art, for Duchamp, appeared to function at the service of the mind. He produced a body of distinct and unique aesthetic, which I have taken the liberty to rework, and indeed, Duchamp provided something of a license for others to do so. While visiting Lyon I noticed a shop named "Patisserie Duchamp". As a found sign and having the appearance of an epiphany I was reminded of Duchamp's miniature boxed editions of his canonic works, his /boîte en valise/. This edition could be considered as Duchamp's embellishments for sale at the time, at a reasonable price – delicious, mind provoking and eye catching, like patisserie. With Duchamp's passing I would then become the pâtissier, the pastry cook. This accidental encounter became the inspiration to complete my work many years later. The work is an edition of two of 20 photo collages in a clamshell folding box using the illustrations of /The Complete Works of Marcel Duchamp/ by Arturo Schwarz as a source.

More than half the landmass of Canada is Treaty Land; Including the including the land which has been ceded or reserved under the terms of the eleven numbered treaties signed between the Government of Canada and many of the First Nations in central Canada. Also covered under numerous earlier, smaller treaties are areas of southern Ontario, Quebec, British Columbia and the Eastern Provinces. Vast areas of Northern Quebec, the North West Territories, British Columbia and all of Newfoundland have never been brought under treaty.

He came to attention in the early seventies through his exhibitions at the prestigious Carmen Lamanna Gallery, Toronto. These works were taut, refined all-over monochrome compositions operating within the tradition of reductive, geometric abstraction utilizing homogenous treatments or a single mark-gesture repeated consistently across the entire surface. They were shown in the company of a band of minimalist-inclined painters: Brice Marsden, David Diao, Les Levine and Paterson Ewen. By mid 1970s, he and fellow Lamanna exhibition mate, Ewen were breaking free of this mould. Both had spent time studying at the school of the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts, and their new work sprang forth with vivid colour and accentuated linear mark-making. Their works shown in the 1975 exhibition /The Canadian Canvas/ signaled the dawning of a new art. While Ewen gravitated towards New Image figuration and landscape, Bolduc evolved a unique signature approach to central imagery abstraction.

The images are a survey of various aspects of the artist's work since 1975. As the objects are often reused in different combinations in different situations, they are untitled and undated. In most cases they can be hung on walls, placed on floors, or suspended from ceilings. The objectivity is emphasized by the subjectivity of placement; intention and chance in a continuing of space/time. Materials include acrylic, oil paint, ink, canvas, rayon, steel links and clamps, steel, wood and plexiglass.

With Duchamp's poem "Intramince" (published on the back cover of the 1945 /View/ magazine), tobacco smoke is rough going in but aromatic coming out and perfected when exhaled, a consummation married in the mouth as a mental and physical process. Smoke is also a way of inhaling and exhaling abstract and physical space (of dreams and oblivion) where the addiction/obsession of cigar smoke – from Duchamp, Philip Guston, to Frank Stella or the Mayan priests – produced a psycho awareness, a false state of lightness, and well-being. Smoking also participates in the circulation of desire and ideas.

with a text by Paul McCarthy (deutsch/english);
making of the world through language and knowledge. My arrangements are schematic, inviting the viewer to move into a space of speculation. I rely on our desires for beauty, poetics and seduction.

Representations of firearms are a major element in contemporary popular culture. War films, action films and westerns, for instance, would not exist if there were no firearms portrayed. A large percentage of TV programs feature guns prominently. Crime, war and law enforcement are major themes in literature and television, with firearms playing a role across all genres.

But what can "remembering the present" mean, except having the irresistible sensation of having already experienced it previously? Inasmuch as it is an object of memory, the "now" is camouflaged as the already-been, and is thus duplicated in an imaginary "back then," in a fictitious "other-then." It goes without saying that between the current event, considered a mere repeat, and the phantom original prototype, there is no mere analogy, but rather the most complete identity. The present and the pseudo-past, which have the same perceptual and emotional content, are indistinguishable. The consequence is a troubling one: every act and every word that I say and do now seems destined to repeat, step by step, the course that was fixed back then, without the possibility of omitting or changing anything. injured. The Yemenis die as if they never lived. This is true mainly because the French blood flowed in a place full of light, in the City of Light, while the Yemeni blood flowed in darkness.

My recent work is minimal in nature and structure. The simplified perspective of the canvas setting enables me to delve deeper into the fragile drama of both drawing and painting. I refer to these new works as "my poetic-philosophical excursion into the realm of lust and austerity; the naked presence of Life amongst the Broken Rhythm and Voids of Architectural Grandeur... Beautiful Anxiety".

The weight of these unforeseen challenges have produced a peculiar moment of social upheaval marked by a nagging sense of stasis—a feeling that, in spite of constant pushing, nothing is in fact moving, or that we are collectively going in circles. This makes it necessary to reluctantly face up to a choice that the current situation poses: whether to religiously believe in a general historical movement towards a change for the better, or resolve ourselves with the fact that things will always remain the same. But this is a false binary.

colours. It continued with the support of the Galleria Civica di Arte Contemporanea di Trento (Civic Gallery of Contemporary Art of Trento, Italy), Museion Modern and Contemporary Art Museum of Bolzano (Italy) and Kunstraum of Innsbruck (Austria) with the intervention of Bird Flu at the 4th Berlin Biennale. Bird Flu is a trip into physical and mental state of influences, taking an ironical use of the term influenza as a starting point in suggesting multiple levels of interpretation.

Central to our quest for meaning in death is the the possibility of an afterlife. What happens to us after we die? Do we go somewhere else? Do we retain our identity? Do we become nothingness, disconnected atoms and molecules that will be recombined to become other beings or elements? Do we reincarnate?

Transformation of our environment is represented in /*Breaking Earth*/, the collaboration of video artist *Alfred Guzzetti* and composer *Kurt Calvert 22 presents …how is it towards the east? a month-long exhibition and series of events which aim to make visible a body of research into the histories, both personal and collective, of the Calvert 22 building and surrounding area. Fostering conversations around how histories are written and recorded in print and on screen, ...how is it towards the east? critically examines modes of self-organisation and the traces of Eastern European and Russian immigration in the East End.

‘Wilf – a Life in Pictures' is a fictional biography of an English editorial cartoonist. Wilf's career began in the early '60s and lasted through to his early retirement in the '90s. Throughout his working life he maintained friendships with a group of fellow cartoonists. Through this invention ‘Wilf' examine how codes of illustration and visual styles change over time and chart the development of a mass graphic language – showing how it felt, as well as how it looks at certain moments in time and the thoughts of the group of cartoonists on their personal and professional relationships over the period.

I worked in various ways. In some prints, for instance, I use the idea of the photo inset where a small section of an image is magnified and overlaid onto the original; in these prints the inset is magnified into a pixelized section. I used found photos and the works of my favorite photgraphers, printmakers, and painters. In my last prints I made a series of prairie landscapes, small prints, almost sketch-like. For physical reasons, after this series, I could not make prints and gave my attention instead to projects for the Internet, where I have been working since the early 90's.

Hand made and labour intensive, the manner of my book works' creation gives form and a very particular expression to what are otherwise invisible processes. The book work production begins with the physical dismantling of a "found" publication. Generally I use popular publications such as political biographies, popular historical narratives or how-to manuals, but sometimes I shred encyclopedias and scientific textbooks. The covers and bindings are removed and the pages are shredded, saving most illustrations intact. New sheets of paper are then formed with the paper maker's mold and cotton pulp, which includes all these shredded fragments (and sometimes other ephemera such as straw, banknote and tinsel). The new pages are quite literally built out of the old. Appearing in a composition of random sentences and illustrations from diverse sources that are now unhinged, if not completely divorced, from their past manifestation, the original contents of the source book are radically transformed. The new book work's title combines elements from the original publication to echo this effect. This relationship refers to the processes of cultural change where new technologies build upon the concepts and materials of past forms: The new does not so much efface the old, as selectively adapt critical elements of its multiple meanings and effects.

The digital images in this portfolio represent work done using original photographs by the artist and 'Photo Shop' imaging techniques. After traveling to places like Africa, Newfoundland, the Sea of Cortez in Mexico, California, Costa Rica and New Zealand, I was inspired by the natural history of creatures and the geological formation of land. Fossils found on land are the evidence of prior plants and creatures which once covered much of the earth. This skeletal/creature evidence was combined with photos of the places today to express a sense of the ancient natural world as it might exist in our imaginations when confronted with fossils.

overbearing convictions of a noisy, complicated, and ultimately fascinating city.

This show offers you a group of hopeful ruins, displayed in a classical nineteenth century aristocratic Dutch house.of damaged artworks, a mountain of freshly white sprayed earphones, the Jason mask without a face, the black plexiglass mandala, the silver animated survival cover, the suspended up bird, the celebration-church-bordello, and many more. Once in /The Corridor of Who Knows When/, some are arriving, others are leaving. If you expect nostalgia, be assured that nostalgic images just reiterate an inherited set of cultural expectations. These hopeful ruins might not fulfil that promise.

Of course this is by no means a contradiction. Rather, it suggests that we may be witnessing a very sophisticated war of position that is renegotiating the way artists seek to simultaneously instrumentalize and be instrumentalized by hegemonic forces that far surpass them in scale. It is to say: a dictator is funding the exhibition, and I will not participate in the exhibition with my work on this dictator—he belongs to me, and within my work, and I do not belong to him. In terms of military strategy, it can be taken as a flanking or pincer maneuver to surround and contain the thing that might otherwise surround and contain you.

Sometimes it takes me only hours to do a watercolour sketch but then it sits around for months. When I do the finished work, it may again take a few weeks. This enables me to depict the scene in the fullness of time, as if the herbs and trees are growing and dying before my eyes. One way of achieving this effect is by banishing objects that take me to an exact moment in time, e.g.. a bird in flight or a falling leaf. I also de-emphasize shadows for this same reason.

The works are a culmination of ideas, images and symbols that come together in an intuitive manner -- guided by a sense of rightness -- they belong together.

**_Lauren Berlant and Elizabeth A. Povinelli_*_—_*_*Holding Up the

The evolution of memory into the imaginary and the re-invented is at the center of the paintings and installations of recent years. Complex surfaces hold images and texts, changed as if seen through layers of time. Perforated, fragmented, stitched papers and fabric, beeswax, oil and pigments are transformed into visual terrains of remembrance.

One of my major concerns is with the hybrid space of our contemporary globalized environment. In these spaces, the real and the virtual mingle becoming immersive, destabilizing and ecstatic. In the spaces through which I travel, photographing becomes a transgressive act done with the knowledge that I am under electronic surveillance, surveying the surveyors. But, I am primarily watched not by the desiring 19th century man, the flâneur who, in part, once watched women on the streets of Paris but by the all seeing electronic eye. Panopticonic space has moved outside of Jeremy Bentham's prison censoring our actions even in our blind spots. Extending beyond the urban 'gaze' of the surveillance camera, now we can all be tracked and positioned even in the wilderness. Space has collapsed blending the near and the far, the real and the virtual, the urban and the rural. In my paintings I try to visualize this new globalized space that is layered and fluid. I merge impressions of my present urban environment with, for example, those seen on T.V. of a bomb exploding in a remote village, memories of living for four months in a tent on Meares Island, B.C., or looking out of a train window going across Siberia.

Son œuvre est une analogie visuelle des techniques d'échantillonnage utilisées en musique, oà des pièces et des extraits d'enregistrements musicaux ou autres sont sélectionnés, modifiés et combinés avec du matériel original pour créer un ensemble inédit. Sous plusieurs aspects, le travail de Stewart se conçoit comme un échantillonnage visuel. Nombre de caractéristiques de ce travail soulèvent des questions d'un intérêt critique très actuel. Son usage du texte en est une constante marquante. L'usage de sources photographiques et documentaires soulève également des questions liées à l'appropriation.

Whereas history may be seen either as a lineal or multi-lineal narrative, and whether it is constructed through descriptions of movements, groups, phases or "isms", it is impossible to bypass the need of a historical narrative of a certain nature, and to try to escape our own placement within that history. The understanding of the processes through which we make, interpret, remake and reinterpret history is vital to understand the very process of art making and the ongoing construction of our identity as a society. The Institute of Puerto Rican Culture (ICP) is pleased to announce the opening of its IV Poly/Graphic Triennial: San Juan, Latin America and the Caribbean on October 24, 2015 to March 28, 2016. Gerardo Mosquera, Chief Curator, is joined by Vanessa Hernández Gracia and Alexia Tala. Following the Triennial's fundamental tenet of exploring an expanded and inclusive notion of the graphic image, this IV edition will explore the displacements of this image and its exit from its traditional supports to the gallery space and to the public realm.

As a student in 1970's New York I learned to paint in what was even then considered the "tradition" of abstraction. However, I found my own voice as an artist when I rejected the tenets of abstraction in my own practice and embarked on my lifelong fascination with the challenging tradition of narrative figure painting. It was an invitation to teach painting in Vancouver, British Columbia which brought me back to Canada in 1980. I have since taught in various schools throughout North America and currently teach at Concordia University in Montreal.

Bien que l'attachement premier de Stewart soit à l'économie interne des œuvres en tant que parties indépendantes de son travail, il se préoccupe particulièrement de la question de la cartographie des significations. Si l'instrumentalité des glissements d'images et de sens est évidente, elle doit être vue comme un symptôme plutôt qu'une cause du contexte social. Certains images et fragments peuvent réapparaître dans plusieurs tableaux mais avec un traitement ou une atmosphère différente ou à une autre échelle, et ainsi être employés à des fins très variées. Et une œuvre peut utiliser des éléments de natures diverses, des techniques ou des effets pour créer une nouvelle cartographie de significations. C'est cette variété et ces fins tout particulièrement qui sont examinées.

Renaissance angels entered the paintings in 1982. After returning from the exhibition, /O KromaZone/in West Berlin, I was hospitalized with arthritis. I was unable to walk or use my hands. While recovering in hospital, I made a series of works on paper that introduced the symbol of the spirit penetrating and informing matter, the Angel. These pieces were reproduced in the first issue of /C/ magazine. After my release from hospital I made a series of paintings of angels in bars and cafes of New York, Toronto and Berlin. These pieces were exhibited at the 49th Parallel and the Carmen Lamanna Gallery in 1983, and /Toronto Painting '84/ at the Art Gallery of Ontario.

When I paint a large oil version of a smaller field sketch, the work goes through another level of transformation. Often, the finished work seems more real or believable than the former.

In /Natural History Paintings/ I turn my attention to the natural world. Working from sources such as botany textbooks, /The Golden Book Encyclopedia/, /The Life Nature Library/, and /National Geographic/, I reconfigure knowledge based on empirical evidence. In this new order of things, associations are formed through visual perception. These paintings are meant to be pondered, much like naturalists would contemplate specimens in the field.

When I was little, about three years old, I lived in the Pall Mall apartments on Yonge Street, in what would now be considered an Art Deco building with its curved corners and rounded windows. My father, Gordon Wesley Rayner, worked as a commercial artist, so there were lots of art supplies around; big pads of paper, pastels, and commercial artists' tempera paints, not the junk they made us use in school. Because of this I got a sense of the quality of good materials. It wasn't so much 'Gordon, you're a bad boy, go stand in the corner,' or 'Go to your room;' it was more a matter of 'Go somewhere and paint a picture.'

The "Views" jury honors Iza Tarasewicz for "the artist's consistence in shaping her own, mature and original artistic language; for exploring matter and primal processes; for reviving art's cognitive dimension." Iza Tarasewicz (b. 1981) is a sculptor, draughtswoman, and performer. Her objects and their arrangement elude the opposition between the natural and the artificial. As part of complex practices of interpreting, collecting, deconstructing, and reorganizing material, social, historical, and ideological systems, she attentively tests and
A la source du travail présenté ici, il y avait des mots, épars, qui ont servi à le structurer, mots qui ont une correspondance parallèle au travail, et qui renvoient à des images, à des concepts, en vrac; pris isolément, ou agglutinés, on peut y voir des clés, des indices, des amorces, ou rien du tout. Mots et collages comme: écart, éloignement, limite, fissure, anomalie, amas, stratification, incertitude, opposition... opposition des termes, écarts et correspondances, imbrication des systèmes, précision du flou, stratification de sens... Mots qui suggèrent que les pièces sont à la limite (de la sculpture, de la peinture, de l'installation), et seraient plutôt le reflet de formes connotées, entretenant un doute sur la pertinence des catégories habituelles issues de nos acquis culturels; que les pièces, à la fois précises et floues, jouent sur une frontière plus ou moins déterminée où l'opposition des termes se fond, où les systèmes s'imbriquent et où les contraires sont interdépendants, évoquant une forme de complexité diffuse. Ouverts et peu directifs, ces collages contiennent potentiellement une somme d'information, sorte de synthèse latente et non dogmatique qui laisse la pensée voguer d'une idée à l'autre sans se replier sur la précision. Par analogie, c'est peut-être ce qui évoque le mieux, d'une façon simple, la pensée visuelle, pensée globale, fonctionnant par images, qui saisit rapidement et entièrement les concepts, les rapports, les situations et les choses. Si la pensée verbale est la pensée de la précision et de l'analyse, puisqu'elle dissèque et interprète, la pensée visuelle serait celle d'une synthèse immédiate et englobante, non linéaire.

Depuis son installation de 2005 intitulée /Elle a été élevée dans du coton/, l'utilisation dans son œvre de tissu blanc renvoie au décès d'un proche et à toute une symbolique asiatique où le blanc est associé à la mort et au deuil. En Asie, la mort est vue comme un passage obligé vers un monde nouveau, c'est-à-dire une renaissance, et il évoque la pureté.

The idea of duty-free art has one major advantage over the nation-state cultural model: duty-free art ought to/have no duty/—no duty to perform, to represent, to teach, to embody value. It should not be indebted to anyone, nor serve a cause or a master, nor be a means to anything. To the extent that the object of critical theory is the mode of governance, or the distribution of power, critical theory addresses this object through cultural forms or products, as manifestations and critiques of power relations. That is, on the one hand cultural productions are symptomatic of these relations, while on the other analytic of them—having the potential of intervention and critique, again with a specific placement and angle, or, if you will, method of intervention and mode of address. Critical writing is thus a sort of double or shadow, whose task is not only to trace the work, but also to respond to it and to separate the symptom and the analysis, as well as to unpack the overlaps, contrasts, mergers, and mutations of these two moments and movements. And this is a radically different task than that of art advising—or that of the aesthetic judgment of yore, for that matter! was so far ahead of his time that, say, his contemporaries did not understand him, but rather because, when it came to positioning himself successfully in art with an enduring place in history, he made several "mistakes." Among other things, despite Péladan's hard work and the genuinely large influence he enjoyed in his day, he did not do enough, and above all was not sufficiently convincing, to ensure that he would be "right" in art history. He did not persevere long enough in his practice, he was not successful enough in assembling a coherent group of artists, and he was not well connected to the market. Furthermore, he was so extremely pompous and so obviously contradictory that it made it difficult for anyone to take up his cause openly and in earnest. 
My relationship with 'Flowers and Leaves' evolved over time, influenced by backyard gardening and hikes in local mountains, as well as visits to museums to see historical textiles such as Bizzare and Rococo silks and chinoiseries. I am also interested in exploring issues of 'decoration' and its relationship to the 'feminine' reflected in textiles. Muybridge's photographic records from the 19th century show women doing domestic or mundane tasks. By layering these images with re-presentations of 'nature' I hope to demonstrate some of the contradictory assumptions about nature, culture, technology and gender roles.

USA
When I first began painting nature I was uneasy because I felt that relevant contemporary painting could not include pictures of trees. It definitely could not include imagery that could be associated with the Group of Seven. Many artists and academics alike considered their kind of painting a quaint nationalist movement of the 20s and 30s.

/Brazil #13/, shot at a Brazilian medical school, features the corpse of an elderly woman on an autopsy slab. The autopsy has already been performed, so the body is cut up in pieces that have been reassembled for the next class. In Burman's hands, the cadaver acquires an air of quiet dignity, a regal equanimity. Burman photographs his cadavers after they have been carved by the scalpel, and always in a dignified, respectful manner. These images elicit feelings of attraction and repulsion, for in these cadavers we catch a glimpse of our own mortality.

USA
Bolduc openly embraced the joyous fauvistic colour of Matisse, Derain and Dufy. Like his kindred spirit, David Hockney, he relished the primacy and graphic play of free-hand drawing and acknowledged the benefits to be derived from constant daily work upon advancing his art: /Nulla Dies Sine Linea/. For four decades Bolduc nuanced every opportunity to evolve his characteristic style and formats. The temperament and tone of the works differed widely from stately, restrained and under-spoken neutrals to riotous exuberant gregarious colour symphonies sporting metallic and iridescent pigments. Quietly, behind the scenes, Bolduc, synonymous with abstraction, had begun again to sketch from nature: floral motifs, still-life, trees and stars. He and painter Alex Cameron commenced annual sketching trips across the country, notably recurring visits to the rocky coastlines and forests of Newfoundland. Organically, Bolduc's studio canvases embraced this admixture; his invented spaces would be refreshed by direct observation of revered places. David Milne, John Meredith, Paterson Ewen and John Clark come into play, so too the watercolours of Greg Curnoe. In an act of re-unification with glories of art's past, Bolduc created a number of moving, transcendent nocturnes redolent of Van Gogh's /Starry Night/. (with Lawren Harris's late abstractions not too far from sight).

/Mythes ou realites/*
Fast's critical perspective on the shifting nature of contemporary warfare blurs the lines between fiction and reality, truth and memory, combat and everyday life, demonstrating the ethical complexity of one of the most hotly debated topics on the media agenda. 

and also the weird stuff. Sex as the symbolic drainage area for desires that exceed and escape the society, but also as the visceral pelvic thrust behind those desires that glue the whole contraption together when it is actually hopelessly falling apart. Because we all know the fear of sex, and most of us have spent too much time close to a military or imperial or populist regime bent on regulating or functionalizing it. Keep it minimal, because this kind of intimacy mashes subject and object relations together in a way that makes governance confusing if not impossible.

In my studio practice I work with a specific narrative as my theme for a period of one to three years, using texts as diverse as the novels of Kafka, Yiddish folk tales and most recently, Cocteau's Les Enfants Terribles. Scenes evlove from the dramatic interplay between characters who appear from painting to painting. I often base these characters on my family and friends, intertwining the complexities of their individual developments into that of the story.

I try to make my art visually uplifting and spiritually positive. I aim to extend the traditional language of painting through my own vision, intuition and invention.

    John Bentley Mays, "Evans Gives Rigid Geometry a New Push", The     Globe and Mail (Sept 18, 1980).

Kožarić's /Oblici prostora/ (Shapes of Space) were designed as replicas of urban cavities and voids—negative volumes that were transformed into positive forms. In 1963, Kožarić wrote, "Plaster casts should be made of … the interiors of several important cars, the interior of bed-sitters, trees, the interior of a park, etc., the interiors of all-important cavities in our city." Conversely, the result—largely abstract, rounded shapes—is the sculptural realization of the idea of emptiness.

/Although censorship and self-censorship were, are and always will remain an issue in the showcasing of art, whether in the UAE or elsewhere (or perhaps one should say that overt censorship exposes a show of force by the powers-that-be when the implicit rules of self-censorship fail), it is clearly not the only issue at stake now, several weeks after these events began to unfold./
Can it be said that art has a consciousness of its own? And if such a consciousness were independent of us, where would it place us in relation to itself?

*_Franco "Bifo" Berardi—The Neuroplastic Dilemma: Consciousness and Evolution_* <http://www.e-flux.com/journal/the-neuroplastic-dilemma-consciousness-and-evolution> The automation of cognitive activity is going to be a major trend of the coming age, and it marks a leap to the posthistorical dimension. In the modern humanist sense, "history" is the process of the conscious affirmation of free projects in the field of political action. But the cognitive mutation that we are talking about is going to dissolve the historical relation between consciousness, politics, and freedom.

Kassay's work is based on a minimalist /praxis/ where the industrial process for the production of the art-piece subtracts the quality value of the artefact to replace it with the value of objectuality, turning it into something of interchangeable quality.

Mon travail artistique porte essentiellement sur les séries. Lors de stages au Banff Centre for the Arts à la fin des années 1980, j'ai découvert la 'Generation X' et ai poursuivi ce thème pendant d'une décennie. J'ai trouvé ces jeunes conscientisés et, comme moi, préoccupés par les problèmes écologiques et les choix politiques. Leur questionnement a vite rejoint mon intérêt social et m'a amenée à ma recherche actuelle sur écologie.

Je réalise des installations de grandes dimensions, souvent éphémères et la plupart du temps in situ. Dans mes installations, le visiteur est invité à faire l'expérience d'un espace fantasmagorique bricolé, factice, ludique, où le banal cherche à devenir motif d'émerveillement. Des effets volontairement racoleurs de sons, de miroirs, de jeux de lumières colorées et d'ombres, de stroboscopes et autres plaisirs pour l'oeil magnifient divers matériaux de pacotille accumulés les uns sur les autres; toutefois, la précarité de l'assemblage, ou encore, le son ou l'éclairage devenu insupportable menace de réduire l'émerveillement en néant, tel un château de cartes. La figure du château, archétype d'une architecture "merveilleuse" dans l'imaginaire de mon enfance, est un motif récurrent dans mon travail, et plus particulièrement le château de cartes. Le château de cartes m'intéresse pour son architectonique mais aussi parce qu'il évoque deux sentiments contradictoires; celui de l'accès à un monde idéal et celui de la conscience d'un monde au bord de sa propre destruction.

Rather than thinking of my colours as being on surface of the painting, I prefer to think of colour as /in/ the painting: like tattooing the colour into the surface.

We may be able to look at this another way. Because even though this apocalyptic view of the world sees the end of humanity, it also sees humans as the super-authors of their own doom, and even as authors of the collapse of the planet's ecosystem. Humans may be eradicated soon, but at the same time this scenario understands humanity as more supremely powerful than at any time since the Enlightenment, even though this power is purely negative. 

The photograph "Mary is Here" is an image of my mother taken in 1944. She is standing in the middle of a group of men – the "final checking crew" at Central Aircraft in London, Ontario. The occasion, as noted on the back of the photograph in my mother's hand, is the production of the 1000th Bolingbroke bomber. I was six years old at time and would have just learned to print with a pencil.

Nada Prlja's newly commissioned work /Subversion to Red/ takes the form of a performative round-table discussion titled Red Discussion.The event is conceived as a discussion between relevant thinkers and theorists who have been invited to analyse and critique various concepts within socialist / Marxist theory. The aim is to deconstruct former models (those no longer relevant to current social and political structures) and to propose aspects within them that may still be applicable today. During the event, various ideas and key words will been written onto a pentagonal table, which serves as a platform to build up and define a set of concepts and ideals that could be used as a guide for redefining contemporary society. The fundamental idea behind this project is to follow up by now legendary The Köln Show, a joint project by Cologne galleries, staged in their showrooms in 1990, presenting until then undiscovered young artists. On its way to establishing an up-to-date institution for contemporary art in Cologne, European Kunsthalle revisits this historic event in order to test the, at that time, highly successful model within the framework of todays debates about decentralised exhibition concepts and collaborative organisational structures. Against the background of discussing possible operative and spatial models for a Kunsthalle, Nicolaus Schafhausen, together with his team augmented by Florian Waldvogel, focuses on the current relationship between cultural Conceived of as a history and geography manual in the form of a game, Latifa Echakhch often makes use of the spaces in which she is invited to exhibit, finding clues to guide the production of a work specifically related to the site. In /Eivissa/ (2010), for instance, the Spanish playing cards used both in Spain and Morocco are seen from under pieces of the concrete platforms built in Eivissa during the Spanish Civil War to weigh down the tents of the Moroccans soldiers General Franco enlisted in his rebel army. The proximity of the elements, spaces and transaction rituals of two countries and cultures formulates a series of dialectics between play and dogma, the shared and the imposed, as well as between that which is understood to be fluid and transitory and that which declares itself definitive, though equally subject to decline.

Through an expansive practice that spans drawing, sculpture, video, and artist books, Kim contemplates a world in which perception is radically questioned. His visual language is characterized by deadpan humor and absurdist propositions that playfully and subversively invert expectations. By suggesting that what you see may not be what you see, Kim reveals the tension between internal psychology and external reality, and relates observation and knowledge as states of mind.

/How I Finally Accepted Fate/
/The Manitoba Flood/ work will on the surface appear to have a different subject altogether. However, in this body of work I have used the flood as a metaphor for destruction and its accompanying shot as a renewal. Each work is a diptych, one image was shot during the flood and the accompanying image of the same site was shot at some point after the flood. Together the photographs reflect the passage of time but more importantly how shifts in time and atmospheric space can bring transformation not even imagined before.

As curator of the McIntosh Gallery at Waterloo, Urquhart was responsible for the initial showings of Greg Curnoe, Walter Redinger, Ed Zelenak and John B. Boyle.

In choosing the colour of the paper and the colours of the various paints, the final image was always held strongly in mind. The simplest marbling technique, 'stone patterning' seemed most appropriate for the poison arrow frogs in works like /Camouflage/ or /Rainforest Floor/. These circular globules of colour suggest stones, or microscopic cells, and interact vibrantly with the variegated skins of the amphibians. The turtle in /Fragments of Debris/ is an exact re-creation of the turtle in waves, allowing for an assessment of the similarities and differences in the two ways, arriving at an image.

*_Paolo Virno—Déjà Vu and the End of History_*

Whatever is causing this to happen in so many places, it appears that fewer people are immune to its effects—in spite of education, class, and wealth—that it moves in many directions simultaneously. For artists and artworks this poses a problem of representation whereby a reinvigorated need to explore cultural origins will not assume any fixed or easily discernible form familiar to traditional authoritarian declarations. Rather, it will seize upon artists' own lives and priorities, infusing the content of their work with sentimental origin quests, and it will inflect the decisions made by collectors, acquisition departments, and curators. It will accent the way an artist situates his or her work in relation to the world, and to other places in the world where these works may circulate. Everything might look like business as usual when a massive gravitational shift builds itself firmly into already existing lines of thought in artistic discourse, with contextual specificity and cultural sensitivity ascending from artistic strategies or signs of curatorial good faith to become dominant criteria and battleground sites of proxy wars waged in museum auditoriums. A responsible artist might consider carrying small arms to the opening in case anyone has a problem with large-format C-prints of landscapes from a certain corner in that dark cavernous place where you should not go.

In fact, contemporary globalization is the direct opposite of the modern ideal of internationalism and universality. The world of globalization is not a world of international solidarity or shared cultural values. Nor is globalization the realm of the anonymous "crowd mind" as it was celebrated by postmodernism. Rather, it is the world of the global competition of everybody against everybody. This competition pushes the subject who participates in it to mobilize his or her own human capital. And human capital, as described, for example, by Michel Foucault, is primarily the cultural heritage that is mediated by the family and milieu in which an individual grows up.

They were all the rage around the time that I was born. Like the fins on a '59 Chrysler, they were the future. And then they kind of disappeared. Or maybe it was that promise of the modern world that seemed to vanish.

Dans ma pratique artistique, je m'intéresse à la manière dont nous percevons et construisons le réel en y projetant nos désirs, en transgressant la réalité par la fabrication de merveilleux par la psyché. Mon travail se nourrit principalement d'expériences subjectives en faisant référence aux espaces mentaux utopiques, aux paysages imaginaires, à l'idée d'exotisme, au désir amoureux, à la fantasmagorie, à l'errance onirique par exemple. À l'image des expériences d'illusions et de désillusions dont est parsemée l'existence, je cherche à produire dans mes œuvres une oscillation entre le plaisir de l'illusion esthétique et sa défaillance, entre une vision idéalisée et une banalité. Mon travail évoque la vulnérabilité humaine devant la précarité de ce que nous cherchons à circonscrire comme étant le réel, devant l'inévitable hiatus entre les désirs et la réalité.

While the 'attitude' towards the empirical here is difficult to identify in formal terms, integral to Evan's best painting is what we might well term an 'existential' claim...that is based on, and implicit in, and empirical methodology and an intuitive ethic...to descend into the world of our concrete, lived experiences, which means returning to our experiences in a pre-objective world. Evan's painting language may be said to equate with a sort of "descensional reflection."

In earlier work I examined and produced more literal images of lesbian sex (/Sapphic Scenes/ and the /Bed of Roses/ projects). For this series I looked for sites to insert shadowy figures that, once discovered, shift the meaning of the images. The figures operate as fleeting apparitions of lesbians and lesbian sex populating the city. The characters are more or less gender identifiable. The photos present four viewpoints: that of the voyeur/passerby observing the women in various locations in the city; urban nightscapes that the lovers see in their walk through the city; and from each of the lovers' positions.

writers of the same post-cultural revolution generation gather in a provincial hotel to discuss at length (defying both the fast-paced temporality of our time and every convention on the viewer's attention span in mainstream cinema) their views on the place of poetics in contemporary China. The intellectuals take their time to visit various issues connected to China's massive transformation over the last decades, with all its implications for history and the individual, for society and for art, from the most obvious to the most obscure. But what could have been a self-serving illustration of an exercise in artistic withdrawal is unsettled by the unexpected introduction of fiction and the personal in the detached, documentary style of the piece. In a different manner, Philippe Grandrieux's portrait of Japanese filmmaker and revolutionary Masao Adachi (the source of the exhibition's name) is centered around the exploration of Adachi's inner self and avoids thus to be an exercise of melancholy on the ruins of the international left. Active in Japan's avant-garde film scene of the 1960s and a member of the Japanese Red Army, Masao Adachi provides a deeply moving introspection of a life lived mostly outside mainstream society (he was exiled in Lebanon for more than two decades) and with firm beliefs on art's possibilities. The decision to not enter the production logics of the art system is to be read in Mladen Stilinović's 1993 manifesto "The Praise of Laziness." His ‘laziness' (augmented by the images of him sleeping in the 1978 piece Artist at work) is in fact an active process of critical statements about art and the self-perpetuating bureaucracy around it, both under the socialist and the capitalist systems. Patrizio di Massimo's series of portraits of various characters, ranging in style from a fantastical realist painting to lush abstract velvet curtains bring to the foreground of the exhibition artistic subjectivity as a dominant specter in the crafting of artistic vocabularies. Desire (inconspicuous in the prudish panorama of today's art) insinuates itself at every fold in the piece and completes the exhibition's narrative. /It May Be That Beauty Has Strengthened Our Resolve /is curated by Cosmin Costinas. consisting of 16-feet-tall pipe, a pump, and a basin. In each installation, a fluid is circulating continuously. The fluids, including red wine, liquid soap, olive oil, ink, and coffee, drop in one massive jet from the pipe's opening into the basin; given the extreme total height of the installation, they drop straight down as much as ten feet. The structure as a whole, then, is a rather impressive spatial installation, radiating massive power. Pivi has a reputation for realizing large-scale projects that highlight absurd aspects of our everyday world, confronting the viewer with unanticipated and spectacular situations. Her works place well-known objects in unusual contexts, imparting to them a modified meaning and function, thus exhibiting cultural and social conventions. Paola Pivi realizes conceptions and ideas of structures the viewer would not ordinarily get to see. The spectacular is here balanced with a certain Romantic notion of an inversion of all things. During the past few years, Pivi has been represented at important international group shows such as the 1999 and 2003 Venice biennials. In early 2007, Paola Pivi first presented her work in the German-speaking world with a major solo exhibition at Kunsthalle Basel.

The works of art showcased in the Rohkunstbau XII exhibition reflect the history of the building as well as the individual memories of the artists. Above and beyond that, they highlight current issues surrounding childhood in our aging society. Rohkunstbau XII is a trip down memory lanea journey which is rewritten each time it is taken, always revealing its relationship to the here and now in new and unexpected ways. childlike impressions, joys and fears, as well as the mechanisms of memory.

The symbolic meaning of the Work refers to the social theme of the Poverty considered as a "calamity" affecting the human dignity to to a point that deeply impacts elementary human rights.re: http://www.e-flux.com/announcements/jimmie-durham-and-his-metonymic-banquet/
The artist Ahmet Öğüt, who has found himself participating in a number turning a biennial into an exposé on the transgressions of its funders. Potentially scaring those funders away for good when they realize they are in over their heads.

MATHILDE TER HEJNE

*The Centre for Contemporary Canadian Art* *The Canadian Art Database: *Canadian Artists Files
Unfortunately the Charlie's Books are too delicate to be exhibited; but as historical documents, with their cross references of (for example) four artists drawing each other at the same time, I'm convinced of their unique value. Within these pages are the sources of ideas that were later developed into major works. Hundreds of hilarious collages, outrageous puns and cartoons, loneliness expressed in the feminine curves of a glass lamp-chimney, recipes for pickerel bouillabaisse and wild rabbit stew, blood-covered pages decrying the kill, love letters to our ladies, indecipherable poems, cries, giggles, marks and angles; the beginnings of something.

In 1994 I went to France and saw sixteen versions of Claude Monet's "Rouen Cathedral" at the Mus�e des Beaux Arts in Rouen, a series he did in 1892 – 93, a hundred years earlier. I also encountered my first Yves Klein blue monochrome painting at the Centre Pompidou, which had been painted in 1960. On a previous trip to Paris I had fallen in love with Jean-Antoine Watteau's "Gilles" at the Louvre, finished in 1720, which may have served as a shop sign for a cafe.

–A *ball-making workshop*, in which participants will learn how to make balls according to pre-industrial methods, utilizing old sheets, liquid latex, vinegar, medical tape, punctured bicycle inner tubes, packing materials, rubber bands, wine corks, bits of string, and other unlikely stuff. Materials will be provided, but participants are also welcome to bring old t-shirts, rubber doodads, yarn, and socks missing their mates.

The paintings that I have shown most often are cover versions of some of the top hits in the canon of art history, examining stereotypes of the human figure as it has manifested as nudes, warriors, clowns, and artists.

Selective Inbreeding, Turpentine Creek Wildlife Refuge and Foundation Eureka Springs, Arkansas

In my work, colour functions as a factual component, one hue being equal in importance to any other hue. Colour is chosen intuitively by weight and by presence, not necessarily by its representational properties, commercial or natural.

My paintings begin from the black and white photographs I take of the sterile interiors of such seemingly public spaces as the lobbies' of multinational corporations or the underground passageways that control the flow of people. As a woman, my relation to public space has always been problematised by gender and power relations. The photographs I take in this performative aspect of my process are psychological impressions, located everywhere yet nowhere, rather than an attempt at literal documentation. Both the photographs and the paintings that evolve from them are visualizations of feminist geography.

These images show the Tibetans' sense of survival that has continued in spite of the past 45 years of Chinese occupation and official genocide. The Tibetans is a testament to a people's strength of character and their love of life in spite of overwhelming odds. The political voice behind these images is the affirmation of human dignity and the condemnation of cultural oppression.

The only catch is that speed might already have become an outdated notion. We thought we had to be moving fast in order to cover these long distances, but it might just as well be that the world is shrinking, and we are not in fact moving as fast or as far as we had thought. And we are not so much at risk of fragmenting into a cosmopolitan mess, but of actually being compacted. If space and time are actually compressing, then something totally outside of our control would actually be consolidating all of our fragmentary contradictions on its own until we are completely resolved as a single thing. And this resolved state of being might use the strong name of a nation, tribe, sect, religion, or race to crowdsource votes or as a talisman to ward off further invasions trying to beam in over YouTube or Skype. Some of us may be convinced by not of the hopeful but of the concretely ordinary and pragmatically banal.

*Grant Kester—The Sound of Breaking Glass, Part I: Spontaneity and Consciousness in Revolutionary Theory* <http://e-flux.com/journal/view/270> During periods of political repression, the relationship between aesthetics and politics, and between private and public expression, undergoes both erosion and reconsolidation.

We live in a society that is structured and regulated by a ësymbolí of time. We have come to accept this symbol as a valid and real expression of what time is. However, this acceptance has been at the expense of our intuitive and subjective feelings about time.

Between 28 March and 31 May, the Fundación Botín exhibition hall in Santander will be hosting the 21st edition of the /Itinerarios /exhibit, an annual showcase that is now celebrating its 21st anniversary as a virtual gauge for the state of the arts and which year after year offers a virtual snapshot of the predominant trends in the field, both within Spain and abroad. 

I lived in Niagara Falls until the end of 1960 when I went to London to be Artist-in-residence at the University of Western Ontario. I was the second Artist-in-residence in Canada, Goodridge Roberts having preceded me at the University of New Brunswick.

Last year I made a series of thirty-two drawings called /Notations/ that is an investigation of my levels of consciousness in the process of drawing. My objective was twofold: to explore the psychology of consciousness in drawing and to investigate contemporary print technologies by transforming the drawings into digital prints.

Painting is my subject and all subsequent readings (including my own) are subjective and incidental. The titles offer an entry, but come after the act; that is, they are suggested in the looking and reflect an observation of the process followed, as well as the influence of books, music, people, the natural world and other art that may be attracting my attention at a given time.

The museum may now be assuming a new function in the network. It is being reformatted as a recording device, a flexible memory machine that can store culture like a bank, artworks like a storefront, politics in the form of data. And each of these can be exchanged with one another as currency: the political movement can be turned into an activist archive, sold as an artwork, then exhibited as data, then sealed off in a vault with cultural artifacts for safe keeping. Museums in China are built without staff or contents to fill them long after they are constructed. Others exist online, leaving their buildings to rot. But it would be completely wrong to say that these are the dying gasps of another old-fashioned, overweight institution suffering an identity crisis after
*The Centre for Contemporary Canadian Art* *The Canadian Art Database: *Canadian Artists Files

Space, the next frontier (by no means the final), beckoned. I'm finding it's really a matter of not connecting the dots, at least not all of them. It's leaving space and creating the illusion of space through the use of line, transparency, layering. And what space is this exactly? Location is fluid in this work and disorientation common. But these paintings are where it's at. It is a state of mind.

Framework 6 assembles different national and urban case studies and theorizes from different angles of Europe how the paradigm of creativity contributes to the instrumental use of creativity and what kind of impact it has on the arts and culture at large. Tim Griffin on the toxic delights of safety orange; Elizabeth Esch on the failed Fordlandia project in Brazil; Lytle Shaw on the unphotographable Ernst Moiré; an interview with Scott Sandage on the cultural history of failure in America; and more Anyone found on the
Tony Urquhart was born in Niagara Falls, Ontario, on the 9th of April 1934. He was recognized in the late 50s and early 60s as one of Canada's pioneering abstractionists, having been variously linked with the Toronto painters associated with The Isaacs Gallery and The Heart of London group that included Jack Chambers, Greg Curnoe and Murray Favro. He was also, with Chambers and Kim Ondaatje, one of the founders of CAR/FAC (Canadian Artists Representation/Frontes des Artistes Canadiens), the artists' 'union' that first established a fee schedule for public museum and gallery exhibitions of contemporary artists. Since the 60s Urquhart has followed an independent and autonomous path centred upon his distinctive 'box' format.

Each film within the eight channels of /The Silver Bridge/ presents another window into the world. The tangible narrative structure uses oblique and at times surreal form to forge connections between scenes, incidents, or the momentary isolation of an image; the blinking of a womans eyes when slowed to the speed of a nature documentary, or wild deer grazing with careless confidence in a forested terrain interrupted by the presence of stark white doors going nowhere, promising nothing. The awkwardness pervading each scene is emblematic of the broader intention of the work; bats, captured in the artificial confines of a zoo terrain crawl across the ground, claws grappling at earth, wings scratching in the undergrowth; the diminishing form of a woman in black crawling along the decayed limbs of an old silver bridge, making slow, uncomfortable progress. This repeated positioning of individual and communal social behaviour through the worlds of animals, birds and humans are the touch-stones for the viewers journey through the work and through Irvines layered and obtuse narrative. As one progresses through the exhibition spaces, the unifying evocation of what it is to return to a place seeps to the surface. By coming home, a self-conscious awareness of exterior perceptions is confronted with an interior knowledge of self, implying that all return is a negotiation with the past – with what has changed and with what apparently remains the same. Like walking through somewhere familiar yet different, one is both at home and a stranger, at ease but also awkward, or estranged.

Desire often results from understanding the process. Understanding may be gained through observation of existing chains. The critical opinion provides opportunity for observation of a secondary link.

on various issues, we displayed a long drawing that mapped the network of a fictional building project. A stadium construction site sat in the center of the drawing and both sides charted the paths of migrant construction workers as they travel from their villages to job sites as well the movement of a steel truss from design to fabrication to a building site. In the drawing, a steel truss is designed by architects based on the overall stadium design, aesthetics, and functional criteria.  
of which is evenly painted and then silver-plated, will be located in the ICA's lower gallery. The technique used on the canvases creates expansive reflective surfaces that come alive with the presence of an audience.

Monotype is a medium that remains unfamiliar to many people as a form of visual expression. Simply put, a monotype is a unique impression painted directly on a non-porous surface, such as glass or a metal plate, and then transferred to paper by use of a printing press. Because the working surface is smooth and non-absorbent, paint can be laid down, wiped away or added, smudged or smeared using anything at hand -- roller, brush, rag, Q-tip, even fingers -- until the decision is made to print. One of the beauties of this method is that it freely incorporates the immediacy of drawing and making marks with tones and washes usually associated with watercolour, as well as the possibility of building up a more opaque colour as in oil painting or gouache.

Sculpture

I am concerned with historical dislocation, the break in the sense of connection which man has long felt with the vital and nourishing symbols of cultural traditions.

History is coming back, but not in the way we understood it in the idealist tradition. If Kojève's universal homogenous state (which is probably also the EU) is characterized by unbearable boredom and stagnation, it starts to make sense that the only political horizon available to not only the wishy-washy centrists of electoral democracies, but also to the uprisings and Occupy movements of recent years, was liberal democracy in its present form. And yet we are increasingly bumping up against the utter failure of liberal democracy to account for the bankers and corrupt regimes who commit their worst crimes from within the logic of economic freedom and electoral democracy. So even as we feel the people around us becoming more comfortable making racist remarks, we also start to sense our political consciousness shifting, because it seems clear that the consolidation of free-market democracy is starting to buckle completely. It might be that we are only now seeing how it was a Ponzi scheme all along. History is not beginning again, because it never really ended. Rather, the idea of a homogenous system built on idealism has become unsustainable and has given way to the many identitarian battles that it has had to suppress in order to keep itself going. Only the end of history is ending.

/Andreas Schlaegel/ visits a skate ramp, made by the late *Michel Majerus* at the turn of the millennium. As part of the regular series ‘In a Word,' Italian artist *Carla Accardi *and Dutch design studio *Metahaven* both explore the idea of ‘transparency' and, in the first of a new series ‘Trouvaille,' /frieze d/e/ picks out favourites from the ebb and flow of culture: a book, a cd, a shoe, and a gun.

An art collector, art historian, teacher and book designer, Stéphane Danis is the publisher of Editions S. Danis and /Le muse secret/, producers of limited edition artist's books and multiples. Represented in numerous private and public collections, Danis's books have been exhibited in libraries and museums across North America. He has published /Reliqui/ with Carlos Quiroz (1996), /Dix muse secrets/ (1996) and /La Dchirure/ with Jacques Lamoureux (1993), and /Curio/ with Irene Whittome (1994).

Moving into a method of painting with an emphasis on technique I began to explore the movement of my own hand. The origins of writing have always interested me so I began freely rendering my hand movements in automatist marks along registers or rows such as the Egyptians used. In some of these I combined the tree image with the marks. Gradually the marks took on a rhythm of their own in forming shapes in the paintings.

I began painting spiritual impressions and worked through stages where I would hear trees communicating feel wind spirits blend with the water movement and enjoy the ever-changing pigmentation in the plants
Tom Morton explores the work of Jeremy Deller from Advance Warning Sign to Acid Brass, Secret Hand Signals for the Middle Classes, The Battle of Orgreave, and his latest project After the Gold Rush.

I like to think of the colour as being /in/ the paintings not on the surface, like tattoos.

In my work I combine photography with textiles. I have always been drawn toward patterned surfaces, and particularly textiles in which pattern is inherent. Initially, it was simply visual pleasure that entranced me; years later, through study, I am impressed and fascinated by the language of pattern. It can identify a people, a region from which they come, as well as a person's age, profession and social status within a society. Using both patterns occurring in nature and from existing textiles, I create a language that informs the photographed subjects which are juxtaposed with backgrounds of pattern.

A previous painting project, "Sliding Landscapes", had tried to address some of these same issues. It investigated painting as decor, purposefully taking a small range of historical images (18th-century Italian landscapes), reworking them in several modernist colour schemes and then hanging the works as a pattern on the wall, like an Ellsworth Kelly installation. With "Last Pony", I might once have considered doggedly realizing similar colouristic options as a series of painted variations (see Gilles project). Now, however, with the image conceived as a manipulable photograph of an object in context, I am relieved of that fetishistic studio imperative.

Exploring uncertainty and transience, my work is concerned with the actual fragility and transitory nature of what seems solid, weighty and permanent, both physically and also in the way things are perceived.

. . . the relationship between art and life, and art and institution. When on a scale of 1:1, art not only describes life, it is one with it. This relation can be disrupted by the institution, which is often thought to divorce art from life. Not so, however, when the institution itself tries to establish a similar one-to-one relationship with art by no longer merely representing it, but instead treating it as a partner.

One of the major issues addressed by the /1:1 STOPOVER/ is the relation between the event providing the framework for the presentation of art and the duration of the art. Because 1:1 art can last months, years, even decades. 1:1 art follows the rhythm of life, finding realization in various moments and forms of its existence that not even the artists can always fully control. 1:1 art has a past, a present, a future, and sometimes also an end, a death (when the artist deliberately destroys his or her work). It is never a wholly finalized product, and this makes /1:1/ only a moment in the duration of 1:1 art. When an institution acknowledges its own inability to represent the complex temporality of 1:1 art in all of its life forms, it can only offer a place where such art can become a public good, a place where its various users can come together. This point of connection is the place of common interests, where the roles of curator, artist, and audience are often swapped or overlap.

1:1 art proposes conditions that do not involve anyone representing anyone, conditions under which interpretations and translations result from actual, concrete collaborations. It combines theory and practice, art and science and technology, experts and knowledge from below, in order to impact specific socio-political circumstances and help improve future conditions. Such art acts connectively in society, devising alternative models of cultural and knowledge production, violating the existing economy of time and formal identity of citizenry, and even conceiving of human creativity beyond our planet. It advocates fairness in conditions of work and self-organizing at the level of local communities, and invents ways of trading in work and time that do not produce surplus value. Artists working on a scale of 1:1 build artist institutions, artist banks, even artist states. Or they fix the mistakes in, and stimulate the functioning of, the museum where they are exhibiting. They also think about a new art institution by observing the old one from a meta-position, as if as an antiquity, as though they were seeing it from the vantage point of the future.

Imagination allows for the rational and the irrational to coexist productively. Imagination is the primary force for emancipation. A Terrible Beauty Is Born, a verse from the poem /Easter/, 1916 by William Butler Yeats that gives the title to this Biennale, brings together two apparent opposites. We are interested in this structure of productive contradiction. This Biennale intends to address a state of confusion in the arts today, where art is conceived primarily as a commodity in the economic market. This exhibition does not chronicle; it distinguishes between art and journalism. It also distinguishes between art and communication. We resist the notion of the need to explain dense materials. If texts are to appear in the Biennale, or the catalogue, they will be artworks in themselves, not external explanatory texts. With W.J.T. Mitchell, we ask what the images and works in this exhibition want and do. We intend to signal the power of the image, one that may drastically alter an established order. We are not interested in the representation of the political, nor do we intend to enact the political. Such desires would be redundant.

If it could be considered an animal or a beast, it would choose to be so. If it can be at war with itself, it will attempt to do so. The Canon of Curating

. . . ultimately lead to an inquiry into what makes the one exhibition more important than the other, and why?

In the /Historiography/ section, Bruce Altshuler explores the discussion and research around the complex establishment of an exhibition canon. Simon Sheikh notes in his contribution that it is important to keep the inclusionary and exclusionary mechanisms of a canon in mind and reconsider the writing of a history of the exhibition canon through ideas and concepts rather than events.

In an interview with Cristina Freire, Walter Zanini describes his anticanonical curatorial approach for the sixth Jovem Arte Contemporânea exhibition in Sao Pãolo.

And in /Positions/, Bassam El Baroni proposes that a new universality should become the center of curatorial debates, and Jelena Vesić makes five comments on the canons of contemporaneity.What Keeps Mankind Alive?

It certainly seems that, seen from the dominant contemporary perspective(s), Brecht’s Marxism and his belief in utopian potential and open political engagement of art all look a bit dated, historically irrelevant, in dissonance with this time of the crumbling of institutional Left and the rise of neoliberal hegemony. But the real question is, isn’t this in fact symptomatic? Isn’t the way in which Brecht is now ‘forgotten’ and ‘unfashionable’—after his immense popularity in the 1960s and 70s and a smooth transformation into ‘a classic’—precisely the indicator that something has gone wrong with contemporary society, and with the role of art within it?

The similarities between the influence of rapid developments of liberal economy on the disintegration of hitherto existing social consensus in 1928 and in contemporary times are striking. Again we live haunted by the fears of approaching global changes, consequences of which could have lasting disastrous effects, not unlike those that transformed the world after the economic collapse of 1929, and today’s questions about the role of art in instigating social changes are equally pressing as they were in the 1930s, when the Left confronted fascism and Stalinism. Or do we really consider them to be solved within an all-encompassing system of cultural industry and its contemporary malformations, confined to art /genres/, predictable as cultural trends, and profitable for the purposes of marketing?

As a writer and a director, Brecht continuously sought to slice open and display, then deconstruct and transform the theatre’s ‘production apparatus’—it is this approach that should lead us out of the current deadlock of ‘contemporary art apparatus.’ It is not about /deus ex machina/ solution or forgotten method that we can directly translate, but about certain puzzle that could stimulate us to properly formulate problems of the present and revive the function of pleasure and entertaining and didactic role of art. At this time, the question of ‘usability’ of Brecht means first and foremost a repeated need to observe the interaction of art and social relations. As in 2005, the stands in the Modern and Contemporary art sections will have 4 meter tall dividing walls. Once again, MiArt will be inviting galleries to submit their plans for prior approval. To ensure the utmost quality, the MiArt Review Board will examine all entries. There has been no change in the Review Board: the members are Claudia Gian Ferrari,

meetings bringing together members of the art community with the public at large. And starting in 2006 MiArt will be embarking on a new initiative: each year a special invitation will be extended to a different country: the first guest country will be China. Some of today’s leading Chinese contemporary art galleries will be in attendance.

There are many ways of /being-with-one-another/, many ways of sharing a particular time and space. The experience of reciprocity within these ways of being together belongs to the public domain; it creates relationships between people and gives meaning to this interaction.

For the first time, SITAC’s advisory committee assigned two directors for the 2013 edition. SITAC XI parts from the notion of community. The word-phrase which titles this edition, /being-with-one-another/, derives from the notion developed by contemporary French philosopher Jean-Luc Nancy in his book /Être singulier pluriel/ (Being Singular Plural, 1996) and works here as a trigger to approach different relations and associations between social and cultural phenomena, and the artistic practices.

During the three-day symposium—artists, curators, philosophers, theorist, architects and writers—will reveal their ideas and concerns about the notion of community and collectivity, both as spaces where circulation of meaning and the possibility of action can be perceived.  . . . aims to be more of an ongoing investigation, tracing dialogues and debates from being-with-on-another.

In its previous ten editions, SITAC has established itself as a reference platform in the international arena and as an expected event for a broad audience, one of the most relevant events in contemporary art theory of the region.

As the crossroads of several artistic trends, *artparis* has proven itself to be a cultural melting pot where artists, gallerists, collectors and even less experienced visitors can feed their passion for modern and contemporary art and satisfy their curiosity for the world we live in. . . . brings together artists and filmmakers from different countries and generations, juxtaposing their work with the outstanding history of Polish avant-garde film, represented by the works of Pawel Kwiek, Józef Robakowski, Natalia LL, Stefan and Franciszka Themerson, Bogdan Dziworski and many others.

/Vertically/ it contains a reference to the three movements important to experimentation with art and film: the very first modernist avant-garde, the neo-avant-garde of the 1970s, and the artists who started working in the 1990s to address, often with irony or idealism, the heritage of the two previous movements. In contrast, the title’s horizontal reading includes different understandings of the notion of avant-garde like Peter Wollen’s text Two Avant-Gardes that elaborates on the difference between narrative politics and politics of the formal experiment suggesting something like a third, fourth and even fifth avant-garde *1,2,3 Avant-Gardes* experiments itself with a setting that confronts the videos and films of artists working since the 1990s and influenced by different legacies and notions of moving image with the extensive work of earlier generations of artists, performers and filmmakers in Poland. The exhibition consists of six rooms, organised according to different themes, such as Analytical strategies, Political Film / Soc Art, Sound & Image, Imagination, Games / Participation, Consumption, and features work especially developed for the show.

research project focused on gathering and analysing Polish film and art. The aim of the program is to reveal new layers of communication between film and art, and to develop contemporary contexts of presentation for this historic material.

Art as Contextual Art is the next stage of an exhibition and research project that explores the “continuous” history of experimentation in film and art and the interaction of both fields.

Grounded in the extensive Polish experimental film output of the 1970s, Avant-Gardes will offer a selection of films mostly produced by Polish artists from that period, whilst including contemporary international artistic proposals that constitute a challenge for the interpretation of the history of experimental cinema. The exhibition follows a schema structured under the following headings: /Analytical Strategies. Games and Participation. Political Film and Soc Art (Socialist Art). Image and Sound. Imagination. Consumption/. This specific disposition will structure the works with the aim of analysing both formally and conceptually the use of experimental strategies within visual production.

The show at sala rekalde is a new contribution of Avant-Gardes/ entitled /Art as Contextual Art/. It departs from main ideas developed by Polish conceptual artist Jan Swidzinski, who in the early 1970s wrote manifestos and produced art works based on radical ideas about the importance of working within a specific socio-political context. His proposition for producing Contextual Art instead of a more universal Conceptual Art was crucial for the Polish art of the 70s. The exhibition will try to analyse the political, aesthetical and theoretical implications of working with the context of some Polish artists active in the 1970s and will also set out the different ways of negotiating with this issue in contemporary art production. “The true art of a curator is an art of compromise.” No doubt Pierre Restany’s /bon mot/ reflects the reality of curatorial practice. Curators are dealing with different and often alien interests—political, economic and social. In realizing their oeuvre, they must always satisfy the requests of politicians, sponsors, managers, artists, professionals and large audiences. What are the limitations of this art of compromise? Does an art of compromise also presume a consciousness of what should not be a matter of compromise?

Miguel Á. Hernández-Navarro, in the /Discourse/ section, takes his point of departure from Simon Critchley’s position on ethics, which claims action in order not to limit itself to mere discourse. Accordingly, the curator’s job is an ethical one which is shaped by a multiple commitment towards the institution, the artwork and the public.

. . . brief statements defining their position of curatorial ethics. delves into the relation of ethics to the arts and the ethical responsibility of curators for action. Further in the /Dialogue/ section, a conversation between Pier Luigi Sacco and Angela Vettese focuses on the complex relations between art and economy, and Zoran Erić interviews Maria Rus Bojan and Ami Barak, who curated this year’s Venice Biennial Romanian Pavilion, about the ethics in artist-curator collaboration, the professional ethics of curators and their responsibilities.

Jan Verwoert questions in the /Variations/ section if there is something like a codex for con-artists, cultural producers, writers, and curators, or if this should just be just called the ethics of disappointment.

Hidden in a Daylight

On the occasion of and in collaboration with the 3rd Cieszyn Film Festival the Foksal gallery Foundation has realized an exhibition concentrated on artists working with film.

Kepi blanc, nackt


“KEPI BLANC, NACKT” is just short for the exhibition title which reads as follows: “DR. NO’S DIAMANTENPLANTAGE, des PHANTOMMONCH’S PRARIEERZHALL, nahe den wassrigen GOLDFELDERN des DR. SAU, dabei die DSCHUNGELHAUT uber die ZAHNSPANGE des erntefrischen GEILMADCHENS ‘SAINT JUST.’ (DER PLANETENKILLER DR. FRAU).” The title already leads us right into the center of Meese’s universe. Various figures and their world views clash in a flood of pictures, neologisms, texts, and objects of all kinds: Stanley Kubrick meets Richard Wagner, Stalin encounters In the fadeovers blending myth, art, and politics, boundaries between different concepts blur. Squeezing in between all people and things, Meese, deliberately crossing the line, creates a specific cosmos that is fuelled by both the past and present of his personal sphere and world history.

With “Docteurs-Pecheurs et Partis du Bonheur General”, Yuri Leiderman delivers a comprehensive dictionary of all the names that could ever be used by political parties as well as the single components of those names. They are not accompanied by written definitions though, but by illustrations from the field of fishing which lends a humorous and poetical note to the publication that finally leads to a paradoxical lightness.

Nicoletta Stalder

“My studio is my kitchen, and all ingredients are permissible.” Using various means – painting, sculpture, objects, videos, manifestoes, interventions and culinary art – Nicoletta Stalder (b. 1972) repeatedly injects an energy into the art business that runs almost stubbornly counter to traditional exhibition forms. Nicoletta has drawn attention to herself with actions and manifestoes which coquettishly berate the current art business. She has chosen a space that lies outside of the theoretical debate and works closely with a whole network of people who are creatively active in art and culture, and who have chosen an independent path – to the advantage of their creative work, but to their own financial disadvantage.

the Basle Kunsthalle, she how, as hostess, offered a platform to her growing network of partners. Small and micro-companies allowed the public insight into their respective independent economies. On a daily basis, new time windows opened in which Nicoletta’s guests sang, danced, performed magic, or pursued crafts. The fruits of these activities were texts, hats, paintings, sound, a climbing wall and much more.

The photographs which were taken throughout the whole project mostly show installation shots or single works, but some of them also document conversations between people. The choice of the photographs as well as the texts about moments deliberately chosen by the authors, match the questioning of the classical notion of an artwork which Stalder follows in her art practice. Turbulent Screen is a project in the form of an exhibition and cinema program that presents structural approaches in film and video art. In the 60s a new language of film emerged, which was labeled as the movement of “Structural Film”. The filmmakers constructed their films not according to narrative sequences, but along artistic principles which could be found in every area of contemporary art at the time – challenging perception, the materials of their media, the time-space parameter of film and the relationship between the viewer and the viewed. This experimentation with moving images in the film world was also mirrored in the new medium of video. Artists who began working with video in the late 60s and 70s were very much aware of what was happening on the front of moving images and forged new paths with playful and intelligent examinations of their own medium. Today, the approaches of decades past are being tapped and furthered by a younger generation of artists who are also featured in the Turbulent Screen project. to the diverse and knowledgeable range of collectors visible on the international art scene.

. . . a rare convergence of artists and audiences boldly pushing at the boundaries of contemporary art in a ten-day festival format. The Festival offers live performances, visual installations, concerts, experiments in music and film, and provisional galleries in unexpected spaces—activating the city of Portland with the energy and art of our time.

TBA operates as a catalyst for artists and audiences to explore and connect through the experience of performances, exhibitions, artist talks, workshops, and unruly late-night experiments. The Festival is an open invitation to participate in the current cultural moment, ecstatically drift through late summer evenings on the air of new ideas, and fearlessly devour the art of our time by artists operating at the diverse and charged boundaries of contemporary art. will encounter Festival artists playing at the edges of musical forms—utilizing raw vocal expression and sonic experiments to reveal social and cultural realities. The theater and dance lineup firmly embraces intimacy, exchange, humor, and smartly re-imagined worlds.

drag balls, installations, sonic experiments, TBA Kitchen, mock reality TV shows, film and more. It’s an afterparty where everyone’s invited, a moonlit summer nitery, a warehouse venue that transforms with each new day.

With the coming of the post-media or post-conceptual age, artists have become more concerned with creating new narrative structures for their stories, whether real or imaginary, and for their experiences, whether major or minor. The starting point is no longer the matter and technique of traditional painting or sculpture, but a concept, an idea or a story which is then given concrete form. Up to a certain point, it can even be said that the originality of the artistic act hinges on the originality of narrative constructions marked by great diversity of materials and innovative forms of spatial organization.

Aware of the fact that our world is a world of stories and that a biennial should above all bear witness to its time, Gunnar B. Kvaran, curator of the Biennale de Lyon 2013, is proposing an exploration of contemporary international narrative art in its many forms. The accent is on the works of artists who, rather than settling for straightforward narrative or self-narrative, are committed to structuring their visual accounts and developing specific narrative systems—among others Matthew Barney (US), Tavares Strachan (US), Paulo Nazareth (BR), Anne Lislegaard (DK / NO), Yang Zhenzhong (CN), and David Douard (FR).

contemporary and avant-garde art. A culture MiArt believes is very much alive in the Dutch tradition since the XIV century to nowadays. As a matter of fact Holland is worldwide known to be a country in which are accomaditing nascent and creative trends in all the artsexpressions.

Thanks to its long lasting democratic tradition, *Holland is able to promote contemporary art through a kind of system composed by State, private sponsors, foundations, collectors and agencies of production to sustain the artists*. This Country offers some services to the artists, like the residency program or the agencies of production that are specialized to make possible relevant works of art or helping to organize performance or live show. . . . an ode to the work of young artists, and, more importantly, indicative of the organizers conviction that emerging artists must be supported and must have a chance to exhibit. The Anteprima will also include a video art section. For the second year running, a dark area within *the Anteprima*, sealed from light, will house numerous video art installations continuously in play throughout the show. Maria Rosa Sossai and Ian White from Londons Whitechapel will /1395 Days without Red/ is a cinematographic project by Šejla Kamerić and Anri Sala in collaboration with Ari Benjamin Meyers. Conceived, developed and filmed as a collaborative project, it resulted in two independent films, presented simultaneously, as two separate installations, for the first time at the Museu d’Art Contemporani de Barcelona (MACBA). The films are a unique opportunity to see how, having started with the same materials, the personal reading of each artist and their way of working—not only with the film material, but also the space—convey two completely different ways of understanding the same project. this video induces instability and loss of bearings.

Intrigued by the mass and physical force of the ocean, the artist has filmed the back-and-forth movement of the sea striking a cliff.

Water is a fundamental component of Marcel Dinahet’s videos. Filming the immersion of a human body in a swimming pool, capturing the buildings of London while drifting down the Thames, confronting the sheer cliffs of Ouessant: these different procedures give rise to striking images that are sharp-edged, jerky, buoyant and dense.

In their semantic reach and their radical emphasis on materiality Dinahet’s videos are statements that make no concessions to any form of aesthetic, commercial or political desire to please.

Always at the boundary between reality and fiction, Dinahet’s highly unconventional videos defy all documentary or narrative logic. In these simple, sensual works, in which the camera is often at the mercy of the elements, the recurring issue is transposition: transposition within our A broadly based international spectrum of visual, urban, cinematic, performative and sonic stagings will be presented at three *venues* introducing 50 international artists and art projects. The contributions will be exhibited at the KW Institute for Contemporary Art, Berlin-Mitte, and on the first floor of the Martin-Gropius-Bau in Berlin-Kreuzberg. A film programme edited by film historian Mark Nash will introduce 30 cinematic works shown at the Kino Arsenal at Potsdamer Platz, which is the third venue for this berlin biennial.

A Hub is a term used for the device installed as a connecting point within a computer network, from which data is distributed to the connected individual computers or for large airports that are a central axis for international air traffic. The hub rooms function as a kind of hinge, building up reciprocal and synergetic relationships with the artistic contributions invited by the artistic director. Through their neighbourhood they enable the construction of cross references and rethinking of contexts.

Soon after Rothko saw Jaspar Johns’s first show at the Leo Castelli Gallery in 1958 he declared: “We worked for years to get rid of all “How do we inhabit old buildings? How do we imagine the future? Are we part of that future, and how will the passage of time affect the things that buildings house?” Penelope Curtis explores the disorientations and illusions created by Dominique Gonzalez-Foerster in her manipulation of space. . . . explore the plural resonances of “The Politics of Time”. Together with guest editor Rasha Salti, the /Manifesta Journal/ editorial team approaches the production of time and art, memory and subjectivity, in relation to the ways that they are constructed and presented by late capitalist and other societies of the global North and South.

. . . explores disruptions of a linear conception of time. Each contribution breaks the progress of “straight” time, exposing divergent, peripheral and deviant possibilities. The articles range from anthropological observations on the nature of time and the practice of history, to the politics of official chronology and its effects on the human body. Johannes Fabian’s critical take on anthropology’s denial of “coevalness” was influential in the decolonization of the imaginary of Western art history and exhibition making, as Anselm Franke makes clear in their conversation. Following that line, archives, museums (both physical and virtual), and even time itself, are performed and reconceived here.

The artistic and poetic entries play with historically, socially and geopolitically grounded narratives. Some of them evoke stories, imaginary documents, sounds, smells and memories of places. The slippery paths of memory in this issue propose to acknowledge the relative legitimacy of documents and the plurality of narratives they produce, as is the case with the contributions of Joana Hadjithomas and Khalil Joreige, Emma Smith and Philip Auslander.

Finally, /Time/Bank/ initiators Julieta Aranda and Anton Vidokle were invited to reflect on their captivating, ongoing, and globally-franchising project, which is based on the re-enactment of an initiative by a nineteenth century economist who imagined a regime of economic production and exchange entirely outside capitalism. And musician and artist Sam Shalabi has produced a downloadable sound piece specifically for this issue, exploring these themes. For /17 and in AUC/, Khan constructed a soundproofed one-way mirrored room in which he sat for four hours every night over two consecutive weeks. While drinking beer and smoking cigarettes he spoke to an audience he could neither see nor hear about his teenage years in the early nineties at the American University in Cairo.

/17 and in AUC – the transcriptions/ is a document published the following year of every audible word uttered by Khan during those 56 hours. The resulting text is a heady history of delirium in which words run on without commas or full stops. On the cover, Khan writes that “the decision to keep the unpunctuated flow of the spoken word was dictated by the interest of maintaining the rhythms and enigmas of a consciousness on the brink.” With no account of intonation, this printed matter, this stuff of memory, insists on an investment from the reader who must then make up its rhythm in order to construct its sense.

A few lines of computer code were written to extract all the proper nouns from the transcriptions. 14 have been selected. The discussions at The Delfina Foundation will take these as starting points, and will each night focus on a different one. In approaching the transcriptions as a repository of memory, this series of events presents a structure to understand the artist’s early beginnings. Many of these references have persisted in their importance and are relevant to him and his work even now. /14 Proper Nouns/ thus also delves into various aspects of Khan’s practice, samples of which will surface through the course of this two-week process. These will include rarely seen early and incomplete works as well as other material such as notes, images, books, sketches, cassettes of recorded music.

/a year in the house of bliss and loss/

/the munshid who made philosophical poetry as popular as coca-cola/

/a cough syrup that bent streets and made asphalt soft/

/the tapes that came after reading silence/

/daily breakdowns at the theater workshop/

/paranoia and ecstasy with the crowd/

/a guitar becomes something else/

/auteur cinema and the incredible power of the living moving face/

/how hell was made dense/

/making noise in bedrooms and on rooftops/

/a friendship forged through a shifting lens/

/the haunt of the corrupt intellectual/

/a university department with a seminar room/

 . . . exploring the relationship between space, time and physicality with an artwork whose ‘material’ is a human being. Giving visitors an insight into a more performative and interactive practice, visitors will encounter a new situation within each of the 14 rooms, engaging in a diverse series of immersive and intimate experiences.world premieres, historical and rarely seen works by acclaimed artists from around the world will be brought to Basel.

/14 Rooms/ will include Jennifer Allora and Guillermo Calzadilla’s /Revolving Door/ (2011)/,/ in which a group of performers spontaneously form a line and begin to rotate around the room in a circular motion, sweeping up visitors as they move around the space.

In his exploration of social boundaries and socio-cultural inequalities, Santiago Sierra places a succession of war veterans, from varied past conflicts, standing facing one corner of a 5-5-meter room and instructed to only move from their post once solemnly replaced by another veteran mimicking the changing of the guard.

Damien Hirst’s largely unkown early work /Hans, Georg/ (1992), consisting of a rotating cast of identical twins sitting below two of his own identical dot paintings, will be restaged at the show.

Marina Abramović’s /Luminosity/ (1997) places a performer on a bicycle seat fixed onto a wall bathed in harsh light, exploring themes of loneliness and spiritual elevation. Volume presents the UNSOLICITED practice – a powerful idea generator, a solid business plan and an idealistic design approach.

In order to actively grapple with the questions and challenges of our age, architects have to redefine their role, transform themselves from extremely competent executors of assignments into entrepreneurs and producers.

At the end of the 20th century the architect’s social position slipped away from him. The architect as social engineer, as organizer of social relationships, as the one who inspires political decisions, as a professional power player in the game of spatial distribution appears to be a remarkable intermediate phase in architecture’s century long development. His professional choice in recent decades has been reduced to supplying designs and assembling materials in a spatial configuration with a certain esthetic quality.

But is there still or once again the desire, the possibility, the need for an engaged attitude? Recent years have seen an increasing number of initiatives by architects and artists which could easily be gathered under the moniker of ‘unsolicited architecture’. There is an ocean of problems and possibilities to discover and chart, that know no natural responsible parties.

Courage demands leaving the safe and trusted logic of the assignment behind in order to tread the field of venture development.

This issue of Volume discusses essential tools to permit architects to reclaim their professional autonomy. In the first part, Volume sits ‘Around the table’ with forward-thinking practitioners who see a different role and responsibility for architects compared to a few decades ago. The central part of the magazine presents the portfolio of the Office for Unsolicited Architecture founded by Ole Bouman in collaboration with students of the MIT. All projects introduce a new form of practice that pro-actively seeks out new territories for intervention, addresses pressing social needs and takes advantage of emerging opportunities for architecture. The third part marks the unsolicited world according to young architects and artists from around the globe. collection of carpets—which is among the world’s best known thanks to its focus on unique Persian and Mamluk rugs from the 16th and 17th centuries—is now being presented in an impressive new overall spatial concept by Viennese designer Michael Embacher and with an artistic intervention by Turkish artist Füsun Onur.

. . . with proposals presented either by Galleries or by a renowned curatorium, adding a new vision to the contemporary art scene. /THE BLACK BOX/. An exclusive space in the Fair for art with a significant use of audiovisuals, new technologies or new media art. /THE Thematic discussions will draw on perspectives from across and outside the African continent to navigate key social-political and cultural contexts surrounding the frame of 1:54. Joined by some of the art world’s key players such as Chris Dercon (Director, Tate Modern, Book launch: Condition Report on Building Art Institutions in Africa: Introduction and conversation between Koyo Kouoh and Zineb Sedira on the stimulating development of private artistic initiatives and the thriving Criticism & publishing: Simon Njami (Co-Founder, Revue Noire, Paris), Dr Bonaventure Soh Bejeng Ndikung (Editor-in-Chief, SAVVY Journal, Berlin), Brendon Bell-Roberts (Founder and Publisher, Art South Africa, Cape Town), discuss criticality and theoretical validation of art insight into the changing modes of knowledge production and circulation, and their influence on the recent art of Asia through /Field Notes/.

Butt looks at friendship as a platform that is integral to the longevity of particular kinds of arts infrastructure. Concentrating on those considered independent, “alternative,” and archival in spirit, Butt simultaneously investigates a method of working strategically under conditions with political or cultural restrictions. Municipality, and */Enjoy MiArt/*, a great happening for the city and the general public.

The genetics of art forms, a collective exhibition that aims to capture the hybridisation of society, through the anticipatory power of art. The exhibition, curated by *Giacinto Di Pietrantonio* and *Francesco Garutti*, contains site-specific installations and works that study the relationship between art, society and the new media. Hybridised forms enable change and capture transformation as it happens: this is why the exhibition contains lots of other potential exhibitions and is a repository of many possible worlds.

The catalogue for MiArt 2010 will not only be a guide to the fair, but will also contain photos by *Armin Linke*, who has portrayed the forgotten architecture of Milan, with all its elegant functional details. But the story of MiArt is also the history of its galleries – and it is to these important players on the Italian and international art scenes that MiArt’s catalogue is dedicated. So for the 2010 edition, *Giorgio Verzotti* has produced the first of a series of articles that narrate the story of Milan’s galleries, through the history of art, and vice versa. And MiArt will be a total cultural experience: within the art fair, *Milovan Farronato* will chair De Arte Disputatio: face-to-face encounters, conferences and performances which will become regular appointments and an opportunity for discussion among artists, gallery owners, curators, critics and collectors – to create and again bring back passion to the heart of the art market.

expression using new technologies. Against the Grain

. . . denotes a unique display that places works by established artists in dialog with the practices of a new artist generation.

The work that cannot be dislocated. Some guidelines during the installation of art at the Galerie der Gegenwart

. . . pavements of shattered glass . . .
